Instructions:
In a large sauté pan heat olive oil. Add the chopped onion, chopped cauliflower, crushed garlic and spices – curry, turmeric, coriander powder, salt and pepper. Cook while stirring occasionally about 5-7 minutes until the cauliflower slightly softens.
At the same time, cook the peas: in a small pot, put the peas with boiling water to cover. Bring to a second boil and continue cooking for 5 more minutes. Drain.
In a large mixing bowl, place the chickpea flour and a glass of water, and whisk well until smooth. Add the cooked cauliflower and onions, cooked peas, chopped coriander, salt and pepper, and mix well. The mixture is a bit liquidish and that’s fine.
In a skillet, heat oil for frying, about ¼-inch/ half a cm high. with your clean hands, form a 2-inch patty and carefully place it in the skillet. Repeat with the rest of the mixture until the frying pan is full. The patties will puff up so make sure not to overcrowd the pan and leave some space between the patties. Fry for 3 minutes on one side, turn carefully and fry the other side for another 2 minutes Transfer to plate with absorbent paper.
Serve hot or cold, preferably with side dressing (try it with yogurt and mint)
Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C and prepare a baking pan lined with baking paper. Spray the baking paper with oil spray to prevent the patties from sticking. 
In a food processor, place the broccoli, leeks, parsley and ground flax seeds and pulse it into a crumbly mixture. 
In a large mixing bowl, put the chickpea flour and water and whisk well until smooth. Add the broccoli and leeks mixture, salt and pepper, and stir well. Form the patties, either using your wet and clean hands or any other preferred method, about 2-inch/ 5 cm diameter. Place the patties on the oiled baking paper and spray them with a little oil spray. 
Bake in the oven for 15-20 minutes. Cool. 
Instructions:
Getting the swiss chard ready: Wash well the swiss chard and cut into thin strips. Then, place the chard in a pot and cover it with boiling water. Bring it to a second boil and continue cooking for about 5 minutes. Drain well and squeeze out excess liquids.
In a large mixing bowl, put chickpea flour and a glass of water, and whisk well until smooth. Add the rest of the ingredients- sautéed chard, chopped parsley, chopped coriander, cumin, salt and pepper, and stir well. 
In a skillet, heat oil for frying, about ¼-inch/ half a cm high, over medium heat. Carefully pour a tablespoon of patties’ mixture into the frying pan and gently flatten the patty using a spoon. Continue with the rest of the mixture till the pan is full. Fry the patties for 2 minutes on each side and transfer to a plate with absorbent paper. 