https://myvintagecooking.com/rustic-wild-blueberry-rye-galette/
HOME
RECIPE INDEX
Bread
Sweet
Savory
Drinks
This and That
ABOUT
ABOUT
DISCLAIMER
PRIVACY POLICY
Contact
Join the Monthly Newsletter
Home » Sweet » Rustic Wild Blueberry Rye Galette
Rustic Wild Blueberry Rye Galette
by Saara 2019-07-17
Jump to Recipe __Print recipe
Facebook __Twitter __Pinterest
The blueberry season is on! I’ve picked wild blueberries since I was a kid & I love foraging in the forest. Being in nature is calming and sharing that moment with family and friends is unique. This time around we asked our countryside neighbors to come along with us.
Our cottage neighbors are an old retired couple, amazing people, bubbly personalities. Laughter and chatter accompanied us for 3 hours together in the forest. It was also special to listen to someone humming during the quiet moments. All in all, berry foraging is one kind of shared mindfulness and I warmly recommend it.
Disclaimer: the post includes affiliate links, meaning that I get a commission if you choose to make a purchase through the given links.Read full disclosure here._
One of the traditions after the first forest adventure of the season is making some kind of berry dessert. My all-time favorite wild blueberry dessert is not the classic blueberry pie but _“Mustikkakukko”_ which in English translates to Blueberry Rooster.
The Blueberry Rooster is basically a slow-cooked covered rye pastry served with vanilla ice cream. Nothing to do with a real rooster haha. This rustic dessert originating from Eastern Finland is absolutely delicious. Because I didn’t have enough rye flour, I opted for a wild blueberry rye galette this time.
Rye and wild blueberries are a fantastic flavor combo
Since blueberries and rye might be a bit of odd flavor pair to most, I can assure you that this is something that you must try. Wild blueberries taste completely different in comparison to blueberries. They have an intense and sweet taste of the forest. 
And then rye. Warm and earthy, some tangy notes. The smell of baked sweet rye pastry fills the house & makes you unbelievably hungry. Instead of going full 100 percent rye galette, I went for a milder dough.
You can start your wild blueberry and rye journey with the real Blueberry Rooster deal (recipe in English here). Or you can try this fantastic galette. I would say that they both take the same amount of time to prepare, but galette is your choice when in haste. Feel free to use whole-grain dark rye in both of these recipes. For example, Bob’s Red Mill Organic Dark Rye Flour, 20 Ounce (Pack of 4)
Rustic Wild Blueberry Rye Galette | Recipe
Blueberry Rye Galette
Print recipe
Makes/Serves: 6 __ Prep Time: 1h __ Cooking time: 25min 25min
Nutrition facts: 200 calories 20 grams fat
INGREDIENTS
110g butter (room temperature)
115g wheat flour
50-60g rye flour (I had whole grain rye)
4g caster sugar
60ml cold water
5dl / 2,11 cups wild blueberries
1,5 tbsp cornstarch
80g muscovado sugar
1 egg + caster sugar for brushing the crust
Vanilla ice cream for serving
METHOD
1. Prepare the galette dough. Pulse the ingredients together in a food processor (I prefer to work the dough with my hands). Add more cold water a little a bit at a time if the dough feels dry. Flatten and fold the dough before wrapping it to set. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
2. Preheat oven 200°C /392°F. Prepare the filling. Mix blueberries, cornstarch, and muscovado sugar together. When using fresh wild berries the given 1,5 tbsp of cornstarch is enough. If using frozen wild blueberries, use them straight from the freezer and add a bit more cornstarch.
3. Shape the galette. Place it on a piece of parchment paper and work the dough with a rolling pin. Leave 3cm of the border around the edge. When ready, transfer it on a baking tray.
4. Add the blueberry mix in the middle of the galette. Fold the edges in and give finishing touches by brushing the edges with whisked egg and drizzle some caster sugar on top.
5. Bake for 25-30 minutes in the middle rack until the bottom is ready. Transfer the galette to a wire rack to cool. I prefer to serve this warm with vanilla ice cream, but you can also let it cool completely.
Did you make this recipe?
Tag me on Instagram @myvintagecooking
This is actually my second blueberry dessert
So it happens that when you ask people to go foraging together you get an invitation for an afternoon coffee with fresh blueberry pie. Yum! We all four ended up home with full buckets and baskets. Could not have been luckier, we had perfect timing and wonderful weather to start the foraging season. 
Have you tried rye flour in sweet pastries?
I’m curious to know if using rye flour with desserts is a Finnish/Nordic thing only. Have you made or eaten some pastries/desserts with rye flour as an ingredient? 
For us Finns, rye is a national treasure. The thing is that most of us miss real rye bread when away from home for longer periods of time. Luckily nowadays I know how to bake homemade rye sourdough wherever in the world, you can also check my trusted vintage recipe here to learn to bake your own rye sourdough.
Love, Saara_
Previous
Homemade Blackcurrant Leaf Juice
Next post
Green Gooseberry Limoncello Jam
You may also like
100% Rye Sourdough | FAQ
Finnish Blueberry Rooster | The Dessert that feels...
My First Banana Bread – Fannie Farmer Recipe
Leave a comment Cancel Reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Thanks for leaving a comment. We respect your privacy and your email will NOT be published. All comments are moderated for the safety & quality of the site. By using this comment form, you agree with the handling of your data as per the privacy policy.
Δ
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Email
Bloglovin
Copyright @2021 My Vintage Cooking / Saara / All Rights Reserved
Back
HOME
RECIPE INDEX
Bread
Sweet
Savory
Drinks
This and That
ABOUT
ABOUT
DISCLAIMER
PRIVACY POLICY
Contact
Join the Monthly Newsletter
You may also likex
How to bake perfect Gingerbread Cookies...
Coconut Cacao Balls | Less butter...
Bubur Ketan Hitam | Indonesian Sweet...
Hello! This website uses cookies to improve site performance, statistics and manage personalized content including ads. Learn how to manage cookies, please click read more. Okay, thanks! Read More
