https://storycooking.com/2020/07/24/cornmeal-oat-digestive/
Skip to content
Story Cooking
Menu
About
Press
Food
Photography
People
Editorial
Nature
Matt and Julie
Fred and Bahar
Resources
Cornmeal Oat Digestive
July 24, 2020July 24, 2020
Cornmeal Oat Digestive
When I take cornmeal from my pantry to make cakes or cookies, I hear my mom’s voice in my head: “Don’t forget to add fennel to help with the digestion.” When my children were babies, she taught me to make fennel seed tea “chá de erva-doce” and give them a few teaspoons at time if they had colic, so we always have it in our pantry. It is a flavor I crave and love. It is a staple on corn baked goods I grew up eating in Brazil. You may leave the fennel out or substitute for spices that you like. My youngest daughter loves to temper chocolate so we finished some of the cookies with dark chocolate drizzles.
This recipe makes about 2 dozen.
INGREDIENTS
1 cup Maine Grains Organic Rolled Oats 
3/4 cups Maine Grains Organic Cornmeal 
1/2 tsp baking soda 
1/4 tst salt 
A bunch of bronze fennel or 1/2 tsp fennel seeds, optional 
1 tbs citrus zest 
2 tbsp butter, soft at room temp 
1 egg 
1/4 cup maple syrup 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1/3 cup finely chopped walnuts
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Put the oats in a food processor or blender and pulse to make flour adding the bronze fennel or fennel seeds to incorporate
2. Mix the oat flour, cornmeal, baking soda and salt together in a bowl and set aside 
3. In a large bowl, by hand or with a mixer, cream the butter and sugar
4. Add the egg and beat well
5. Add maple syrup and zest till well combined
6. Add the flour mixture slowly, mixing after each addition
7. Fold in the walnuts
8. Scoop 1 tbsp of dough or use a cookie scoop – onto a baking sheet lined with parchment(or greased sheet) – leave 2″ between each cookie
9. Wet a spatula with water and flatten each cookie to about 1/4″ thick for a crisp cookie or to 1/2″ for a softer cookie, all about 2″ wide
10. Bake at 375 degrees for 10-12 minuets or till golden brown.
11. When cool chocolate can be drizzled over the top as shown or left without.
Share this:
Email
Print
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related_
Permalink. 
Post navigation
Cuscuz
Curtido Spelt Salad 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change ) 
You are commenting using your Google account. ( Log Out / Change ) 
You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change ) 
You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change ) 
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Δ
Search for:
Search for:
About
Food
Photography
Resources
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Follow Following
Join 270 other followers
Sign me up 
Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.
Customize
Follow Following
Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content
View post in Reader 
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email (Required) Name (Required) Website
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Post was not sent - check your email addresses! 
Email check failed, please try again 
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
d bloggers like this: 
