https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019167-french-onion-panade
XSearch
French Onion Panade 
By Samin Nosrat
Yield 8 to 12 servings
Time 2 hours
EmailShare on PinterestShare on FacebookShare on Twitter
Gentl and Hyers for The New York Times. Food stylist: Maggie Ruggiero. Prop stylist: Amy Wilson. 
Panade is the French country cook's answer to stuffing — a satisfying and efficient way to use up stale bread. Because there are so few components, taking care to ensure that each one is just right will make all the difference in how the final dish tastes. Start with a stale, crusty loaf of sourdough bread. Cook the onions slowly, until they're a deep caramel color, and then season them properly with vinegar and wine. Buy good Gruyère and Parmesan, and grate it yourself. And finally, use either homemade chicken stock, or buy some from a butcher. The result will be triumph of upcycling: basically French onion soup without the soup — just bite after bite of cheesy, onion-and-stock-soaked bread. Serve it as a main course, with a light green salad and a dry white wine or an ice-cold beer.
Featured in: I Buy Fancy Bread Just To Let It Grow Stale. Here’s Why.. 
More +
French, Casseroles, Chicken Stock, Gruyere, Onion, Parmesan, Sourdough, White Wine, Main Course
Ingredients
1 large, stale loaf crusty sourdough bread (about 1 1/4 pounds), cut into 1/3-inch slices 
8 tablespoons (4 ounces) unsalted butter, divided 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
4 pounds (about 5 large) yellow onions, thinly sliced 
Fine sea salt 
2 tablespoons white-wine vinegar 
¼ cup white wine or dry vermouth 
5 to 6 cups chicken stock, preferably homemade 
12 ounces Gruyère cheese, grated (about 3 cups) 
3 ounces Parmesan, finely grated (about 1 1/3 cups) 
Freshly ground black pepper 
Ingredient Substitution Guide
Nutritional Information
Nutritional analysis per serving (10 servings)
611 calories; 32 grams fat; 17 grams saturated fat; 0 grams trans fat; 10 grams monounsaturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 53 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 13 grams sugars; 29 grams protein; 1044 milligrams sodium; 
Note: The information shown is Edamam’s estimate based on available ingredients and preparation. It should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. 
Powered by Edamam
Preparation
1. Heat oven to 325.
2. Divide bread slices among 2 or 3 baking sheets. Spread bread out in a single layer, and toast for 20 minutes, then flip slices, and rotate pans to ensure even toasting. Toast until dried out and lightly golden, about 35 minutes total. Set aside. Increase oven temperature to 425, and adjust oven rack to center position.
3. Set a large Dutch oven or similar pot over medium heat. Add 4 tablespoons butter and olive oil. When butter has melted, add onions and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt. Cook covered for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon.
4. Once the onions cook down a bit and release some liquid, remove lid and increase heat to medium high. Continue cooking and stirring regularly until onions are tender and dark golden brown, about 45 minutes total. Turn off heat, add vinegar and wine and stir to deglaze. Taste, and adjust salt and vinegar as needed — the onions should be sweet, savory and pleasantly tangy. Spoon onions into a heatproof bowl, and set aside.
5. Return pot to stove. Add stock and 1 teaspoon salt, and bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Taste, and adjust salt as needed — it should taste like good chicken soup.
6. Place both cheeses in a medium bowl, and mix to combine.
7. Butter the inside of a deep 9-by-13-inch baking dish. Line the bottom with a layer of toasted bread, breaking up pieces as needed to form a solid layer. Spoon half the onion mixture evenly over the bread. Sprinkle with 1/3 of the cheese mixture, and season with pepper. Continue layering with bread, the remainder of the onions and another 1/3 of the cheese. Top off with a final layer of bread.
8. Ladle 3 cups of stock over the panade, then wait a minute, and allow the bread to absorb liquid. Pressing down on panade with a metal spatula, add as much stock as the panade will absorb without overflowing. Dot the top layer of bread with remaining butter, then cover with parchment paper and foil. Place baking dish atop baking sheet to catch any overflow, then slide onto the center rack. Bake for 30 minutes, then remove foil and parchment, sprinkle with remaining cheese and return to oven for 15 minutes more. Bake until golden brown.
9. Remove panade from oven, and allow it to cool for 10 minutes before serving. Cover, and refrigerate leftovers for up to 3 days or freeze for up to 2 months. Reheat to serve.
Tip 
Use homemade chicken stock if possible, or buy it from a good butcher. This dish is about the marriage of bread and stock, so the better these are, the better the panade will be. And don’t be afraid to really submerge the bread in the stock before baking.
Like this recipe?
EmailShare on PinterestShare on FacebookShare on Twitter
More from Best Casserole Recipes
Buttery Breakfast Casserole 
Melissa Clark
1 1/2 hours, plus 4 hours or overnight chilling
Tater Tot Casserole 
Sam Sifton, Molly Yeh
1 1/2 hours
Mashed Potato Casserole 
Melissa Clark
40 minutes plus 30 minutes’ baking
Baked Ziti 
Alison Roman
1 1/2 hours
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
Lidey Heuck
1 hour
Indian-Spiced Tomato and Egg Casserole 
Melissa Clark, Floyd Cardoz
1 hour
Cheesy Broccoli Casserole 
Sarah Jampel
45 minutes
Sheet-Pan Shrimp Gratin 
Eric Kim
20 minutes
Chicken Parmesan 
Melissa Clark
1 hour 15 minutes
Lasagna 
Regina Schrambling
4 hours
Shepherd’s Pie 
Samantha Seneviratne
1 hour 30 minutes
Leek and Mushroom Cottage Pie 
David Tanis
1 1/2 hours
Sweet Potato Casserole 
Marian Burros
2 hours
Macaroni and Beef Casserole 
Pierre Franey
About 30 minutes
Meatball and Sausage Casserole 
Pierre Franey
40 minutes
Easy
Creamy Macaroni and Cheese 
Julia Moskin
1 hour 40 minutes
More recipes from Samin Nosrat
Faloodeh (Persian Lime and Rose Water Granita With Rice Noodles) 
Samin Nosrat
20 minutes, plus several hours’ freezing
Chapli Burgers 
Samin Nosrat
30 minutes
Salad-e Shirazi (Persian Cucumber, Tomato and Onion Salad) 
Samin Nosrat
20 minutes
Via Carota’s Insalata Verde 
Samin Nosrat
15 minutes
Pasta Tahdig 
Samin Nosrat
1 hour
Buttermilk-Brined Turkey Breast 
Samin Nosrat
1 hour, plus 24 to 36 hours’ brining
Easy
Tamarind Ketchup 
Samin Nosrat
5 minutes
Herby Fried Shallot and Bread Crumb Crunch 
Samin Nosrat
45 minutes
Green Goddess Dressing 
Samin Nosrat, Jessica Battilana
10 minutes
Apricot-Noyaux Jam 
Samin Nosrat
30 minutes’ prep, plus overnight rest and 1 hour cooking
The Big Lasagna 
Samin Nosrat
About 2 1/2 hours
Ash Reshteh (Persian Greens, Bean and Noodle Soup) 
Samin Nosrat
2 3/4 hours, plus overnight soaking
Healthy
Spinach-and-Cilantro Soup With Tahini and Lemon 
Samin Nosrat
20 minutes
Polo Ba Tahdig (Persian Rice With Bread Crust) 
Samin Nosrat
1 1/2 hours, plus 30 minutes’ soaking
Mango Pie 
Samin Nosrat, Kanta, Hrishikesh Hirway
50 minutes, plus 5 hours’ chilling
Simple Tomato Sauce 
Samin Nosrat
1 1/4 hours
Brush Up On The Basics With Our Cooking Guides 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Pancakes 
By Alison Roman 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Baby Food 
By Sara Bonisteel 
Cooking Guide
How to Make an Omelet 
By Melissa Clark 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Bagels 
By Claire Saffitz 
Get Our Newsletter
Get recipes, tips and NYT special offers delivered straight to your inbox. Opt out or contact us anytime. See our Privacy Policy.
Sign Up
Please enter a valid email address.
Follow Us
Get the App
About Us
NYT Cooking is a subscription service of The New York Times. It is a digital cookbook and cooking guide alike, available on all platforms, that helps home cooks of every level discover, save and organize the world’s best recipes, while also helping them become better, more competent cooks. Subscribe now for full access.
Learn More
Our Cooks
See Our Features
FAQ
Tools for Saving
NYTimes.com/food
Shop
Gift Subscription
Merchandise
Send Us Feedback
Recipes
What to Cook This Week
Weeknight
Pasta
Dinner
Healthy
Vegetarian
Vegan
Dessert
Thanksgiving
Christmas
Shop
Gift Subscription
Merchandise
Send Us Feedback
2021 The New York Times Company
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Sorry, your changes didn’t save. 
NO YES
