https://www.196flavors.com/india-aloo-gobi/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Asia / South Asia / India / Aloo Gobi
Aloo Gobi
November 7, 2020 by Mike Benayoun 1 Comment
Tweet
Share
Pin 38
Email
38 Shares
Aloo gobi_ (आलू गोभी), also known as alu gobi, or aloo gobhi, is a vegetarian dish from the Indian subcontinent based on potatoes (aloo), cauliflower (gobi) and spices, very popular in Indian and Pakistani cuisine.
What is aloo gobi?
In Hindi, _aloo_ means potato and _gobi_ means cauliflower. Aloo gobi is therefore made of potatoes and cauliflower with spices.
It is a yellowish colored dish, due to the use of turmeric. It traditionally contains leaves and seeds of _kalonji_ (black cumin), curry leaves and _kasuri methi_ (dried fenugreek leaves).
Related Posts:
Other common ingredients in aloo gobi include cumin seeds, onion, garlic, tomato, fresh coriander and coriander seeds, chili pepper, lime juice and garam masala.
What is garam masala?
Although it is consumed in the West and defined around the world as a typical Indian spice, curry has another definition in India. It is indeed a stew of vegetables, meat or fish.
It is believed that what is called curry is actually a version of masala, a mixture of spices, herbs and aromatics that can be made up of up to thirty different ingredients. Although it is prepared in different ways in each region, masala is an essential part of the identity of Indian cuisine.
Some examples of ingredients used are aniseed, cardamom, black pepper, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, garlic and ginger.
There are several commercial, international, national, regional and even homemade styles, family recipes of garam masala, some milder, some spicier, some described more for their color, some more for their aroma.
Vegetarian cuisine in India
For a vegetarian, it is very easy to approach Indian cuisine because for centuries it has offered a wide range of vegetarian dishes, as more than 32% of the Indian population is vegetarian.
Cereal dishes, legumes (they use more than 50 varieties), fruits, vegetables, spices, oil seeds, sesame, chutneys are an integral part of this cuisine.
India is home to one of the oldest cultures in the world with elements from different regions and peoples. The melting pot that characterizes it makes it one of the richest kitchens in the world.
Home to more than a billion people, India has a cuisine influenced by different periods of its history, from the religious practices of antiquity to British colonization.
Vegetarianism, extremely present in the country’s daily gastronomic life, has its origins more than 2000 years ago in the Sramana movement and in the non-aggressive vegetarian practices of Jainism and Buddhism.
With a wide variety of cereals, vegetables, delicacies and spices available, Indian vegetarian cuisine is so diverse that it would be impossible to summarize it in a single set of dishes.
In fact, it could even be said that talking about a single Indian cuisine is not an easy thing to do, as each state and region has different tastes, methods of preparation and preferences in the use of ingredients.
In Indian vegetarian cuisine, there is obviously no shortage of fruits and vegetables. In India, there are many varieties of plants of very different origins.
The Indian agricultural tradition is really very old: the development of agriculture in the Indus Valley dates back to 7000 years before Christ; such a deeply rooted tradition could only produce an immense wealth of plant products.
It is very common to use mango in cooking, which is eaten both ripe and green; with the addition of salt and sometimes chili pepper, or even dried and ground, and then used as an ingredient to flavor dishes with spices.
Another common ingredient, also in the preparation of Indian desserts, is coconut.
In India, spices are widely used in vegetarian cuisine to give a lot of flavor to vegetables, legumes, cereals and even desserts.
The most common are cardamom, coriander, cloves, nutmeg, cumin, pepper, fenugreek, chilli, paprika, ginger, tamarind, turmeric, and mustard.
Among condiments, the most common ingredient is certainly ghee, the characteristic Indian clarified butter. However, for those who have decided to exclude milk and derivatives from their diet, the supply of condiments in Indian cuisine is quite extensive.
In fact, in the vegetarian recipes of Indian cuisine, sunflower and soybean oil, coconut butter, vegetable margarine and mustard seed oil are often used.
Finally, there are herbal condiments and also chutneys, made with fruits and vegetables without the addition of milk or milk derivatives, therefore perfect not only for vegetarian cooking but also for those who follow a vegan diet.
They are composed of vegetables or fruits such as mangoes, tomatoes, onions, limes, peaches and dates, with the addition of spices, especially chili pepper to make them spicy.
Here are some vegetarian dishes and meals from this great gastronomic culture that is India:
Aloo masala_ , based on potatoes and spicy onion confit.
Onion bhajji_, fritters made from thinly sliced onions and chickpea flour.
Dhal makhani_ is made of black lentils, red beans, tomato puree, spices and clarified butter (ghee).
Samosa_ is made of a fried dough, traditionally garnished with a selection of vegetables (peas, potatoes, carrots and lots of spices). There are several versions, but the vegetable stuffing is by far the winner.
Idiyappam_ , a Sri Lankan and Indian specialty prepared with rice (or millet) flour that is pressed in a machine to form fine noodles. The noodles are then steamed before being served, traditionally with coconut sambol (pol sambol) or kiri hodi. In the Indian subcontinent, idiyappam is also known as _indi appa, semige, semé da addae, shavige, noolappam, nooputt, noolputtu, irmandappa, putumayam_ or _string hoppers_ in English.
Paneer,_ a traditional Indian and Pakistani cheese, resembling cottage cheese and ricotta, usually cut into cubes to be eaten as is or cooked in sauce or roasted in a tandoor (paneer tikka).
Palak paneer_, prepared by cooking the paneer cubes in a spinach sauce (palak) with spices, cream and pepper.
Chapati, _roti_ , _paratha_ , and _naan_ : Bread in India is a serious thing. There are a variety of methods to make flat breads, which are flattened and baked in a tandoor or made on _tawa_ (iron plate). Most of them are unleavened.
How to eliminate the cauliflower smell during cooking?
Cauliflower is one of the healthiest vegetables available. Not only does it contain vitamin C, vitamin K, vitamin B6 and folic acid, but it also contains fiber, potassium, manganese, phosphorus and magnesium.
Eating it is undoubtedly beneficial for the body, but many people give up cooking it because of the smell it gives off during cooking. Indeed, this vegetable has an intense and sometimes annoying smell that spreads quickly throughout the house.
There are remedies to avoid this unpleasant passage. These are very simple home remedies used by grandmothers who, certainly from their experience, knew how to solve the problem using the little they had at their disposal :
A slice of bread on the lid: the first trick is to place a slice of bread or bread rich in crumb on the valve of the pressure cooker in which the cauliflower is cooking. The steam that escapes will be absorbed by the bread and will not spread in the kitchen and the rest of the house.
Lemon: half a lemon cut into small wedges immersed in the cooking water and left to cook for the entire cooking time. Lemon neutralizes strong smells like cauliflower, so it is a simple remedy with guaranteed results.
A few pieces of celery: take a few pieces of celery and plunge them into the cauliflower cooking water.
A slice of bread in the pot: simultaneously, a slice of bread can also be placed inside the pot with the cauliflower. Before being added to water, however, it must first be soaked in lemon juice or white vinegar.
A potato in the cooking water: if you do not wish to use a slice of bread soaked in lemon or vinegar because of their too intense aromas, which could alter the flavor of the cauliflower, add a raw potato to the cooking water after carefully peeling it.
One or more bay leaves: another tip is to plunge a few bay leaves into the cauliflower cooking water.
A glass of milk in water: to absorb the smell of cauliflower and prevent it from blackening, a small glass of milk can be added to the cooking water.
A glass of vinegar on the lid of the kettle
A glass full of vinegar can be placed on the lid of the kettle or pressure cooker, near the discharge valve.
Capers in the cauliflower pot: another option is to place a spoonful of capers in the cauliflower pot. The capers, in contact with the cooking water of the vegetable, will eliminate the smell, preventing it from being released. It should be noted that the addition of capers, also having a strong taste, will not alter the flavor of the cauliflower, which will remain tasty. 
Thanks to these few grandmother’s remedies, the bad smells will be driven away, not only from the cauliflower used in the aloo gobi, but also other types of cooked vegetables that generate the same problem, such as broccoli, onion, turnip, and so on.
SaveSaved
Print
5 from 1 vote
Aloo gobi
Aloo gobi, alu gobi, or aloo gobhi (आलू गोभी) is an Indian curry dish made from potatoes (aloo) and cauliflower (gobi) with various spices.
Prep Time30 mins
Cook Time45 mins
Rest10 mins
Total Time1 hr 15 mins
Course: Main Course
Cuisine: Indian, Vegan, Vegetarian
Servings: 4 People
Calories: 377kcal
Author: Mike Benayoun
Ingredients
7 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon cumin seeds
½ teaspoon nigella seeds
1 lb white potatoes , cut into large 1 inch (2,5 cm) cubes
1 medium cauliflower , cut into florets slightly larger than the potatoes
1 yellow onion , thinly sliced
4 cloves , crushed
2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger
5 tomatoes , peeled and chopped
1 tablespoon tomato paste
2 teaspoons coriander seeds , roasted and ground
1 teaspoon hot pepper flakes
½ teaspoon ground turmeric
½ cup water
3 small green hot peppers , cut lengthwise
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon dry fenugreek leaves (kasuri methi), optional
1 teaspoon garam masala
½ lime , freshly squeezed
1 small bunch cilantro , finely chopped
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Heat 5 tablespoons of oil in a skillet over medium to high heat.
When the oil is hot, add the cumin and nigella seeds and cook for a few seconds until they pop, then add the potatoes and sauté until golden brown.
Remove the potatoes from the skillet using a skimmer and place them in a bowl.
Repeat the same operation with the cauliflower, and transfer them to a separate bowl.
Lower the heat to low to medium, add the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil, and the onion and sauté until tender and golden (but not brown), then stir in the garlic and ginger and sauté while stirring for a few minutes.
Add the tomatoes, ground coriander, chili and turmeric and cook, stirring regularly, until the oil begins to surface on the sides of the skillet.
Add the potatoes and green hot peppers. Season with salt. Bring to a boil, lower the heat, cover and cook for 5 minutes.
Add the cauliflower and water, mix, cover and cook until the cauliflower and potatoes are tender, gently stirring occasionally, to make sure they don't stick by adding more water gradually, if necessary.
Remove from the heat, stir in the kasuri methi and garam masala and let stand 10 minutes, then stir in the lime juice and cilantro before serving.
Serve with rice, naan or paratha bread.
Video
Nutrition Facts
Aloo gobi
Amount Per Serving 
Calories 377 Calories from Fat 234
Daily Value
Fat 26g 40%
Saturated Fat 20g 125%
Sodium 675mg 29%
Potassium 1344mg 38%
Carbohydrates 36g 12%
Fiber 8g 33%
Sugar 8g 9%
Protein 7g 14%
Vitamin A 1477IU 30%
Vitamin C 118mg 143%
Calcium 75mg 8%
Iron 3mg 17%
Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet.
Mike Benayoun
Mike is “the devil” of the 196 flavors’ duo. Nicknamed as such by his friends, he is constantly in search of unusual recipes and techniques with impossible to find ingredients. The devil is always pushing the envelope, whether it is with humor or culinary surprises.
Tweet
Share
Pin 38
Email
38 Shares
Filed Under: Asia, Dairy-free, Gluten-free, India, Main Course, Pakistan, South Asia, Vegan, Vegetarian Tagged With: cauliflower, chili flake, chili pepper, cilantro, coriander, cumin, curry leaf, garam masala, garlic, ginger, lime, nigella seed, onion, potato, tomato, turmeric
Previous Post: « Barfi
Next Post: Chana Masala »
Reader Interactions
Comments
October 9, 2021 at 10:31 am
A must-try vegetarian cuisine!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
