https://www.cottercrunch.com/creamy-vegan-mushroom-soup/
Get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Cookbook
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Cotter Crunch
Delicious Healthy Gluten Free Recipes
Recipes
By Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
By Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Condiments
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
No Bake Bites
Power Bowls
Sides and Salads
Slow Cooker & Instant Pot
Snacks and Appetizers
Stews and Soups
Quick Meals
Videos
Meal Plans
Shop
Cookbook
Favorite Products
eBooks
Printables
About
Start Here
Search this website
Search this website
Creamy Hungarian Mushroom Soup (Vegan)
by Lindsay Cotter · 01/30/2020
GFDairy FreeLow CarbPaleoVegan
Jump to Recipe
5 from 29 reviews
This recipe for Hungarian Vegan Mushroom Soup creates a rich, creamy soup that makes the perfect healthy lunch or light dinner. Gluten free and delicious, it is also a lighter, dairy-free and vegan friendly version of cream of mushroom soup. Even better, it’s packed with healthy nutrients!_
Y’all have made it known to me in emails and in our Facebook group that you want recipes for healthier versions of your favorite comfort foods with SIMPLE ingredients ; vegetarian and/or lower carb options as well! 😉 Because cream of mushroom soup is a popular ingredient in comforting meals like tuna noodle casserole and Swedish meatballs, I think the soup deserves a healthy makeover!
Why You Should Skip the Canned Mushroom Soup!
One peek at the red and white label on a popular brand can of condensed cream of mushroom soup is usually all it takes to realize that it’s not the healthiest choice. At least, for most people. Aside from being loaded with sodium, most of the cream of anything soups lack essential healthy nutrients.
For the most part, they are nothing more than roux (equal parts fat and flour) with flavored broth and a lot of salt and preservatives added to them. Depending on the flavor, you may find tiny amounts of the base ingredient in them too, like mushrooms or chicken.
If you want to make condensed soup ready to eat, you need to stir in a couple of cups of liquid to it. Most people use water. When you buy ready-to-eat mushroom soup or you order it at a restaurant, it is usually made with all purpose flour, salted butter, salted broth or stock, plus heavy cream and/or milk.
What makes this Hungarian Mushroom Soup recipe healthy?
Just to clarify, this recipe _ isn’t for _condensed soup – it’s for ready-to-eat soup. It’s a healthier recipe because we make simple swaps for ingredients that include healthy nutrients!
1. Chilled coconut milk (solid) plus a little lemon juice instead of sour cream or heavy cream. A much healthier fat choice, y’all.
2. Almond milk versus dairy milk.
3. Greek yogurt (if you can handle dairy) for heavy cream. Give some extra love for those probiotics!
4. Tamari sauce or coconut aminos instead of soy sauce. Gluten free and much lower in sodium.
5. Tapioca flour vs all purpose flour. Which makes the vegan mushroom soup paleo, gluten free, and grain free too!
Step by step instructions to make vegan mushroom soup
Although it uses quite a few ingredients, making this homemade mushroom soup recipe is easy peasy.
1. Melt the butter in a large pot over medium heat. Or, if you would rather, you can use refined avocado oil or olive oil instead of butter. Saute the onions in the pot for 5 minutes. Add your mushrooms to the pot saute on high for 5 more minutes.
2. I like to add in a splash of white wine (use a dry white wine, like chardonnay), into this next step, but it is optional. You may leave it out. Let’s get to that next step now, eh?
3. Next, stir in the wine, dill, paprika, tamari sauce and broth. Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer for 15 minutes.
2. While the soup simmers, whisk the milk and arrowroot flour together in a small bowl. Slowly whisk this into the soup and stir well to blend. Cover and simmer everything for 15 more minutes, stirring occasionally.
3. Finally, stir in the salt, ground black pepper, lemon juice, parsley and sour cream. Mix together and allow to heat through over low heat, about 3 to 5 minutes but don’t allow it to boil. Serve immediately.
The soup is filling and SO delicious! I like to serve homemade gluten free naan with my vegan mushroom soup. Serving it with a healthy salad is a good option, too. Or, think outside of the box and stir some cooked quinoa or brown rice into the soup. Extra yum!
If you want to see how I made this, check out the IGTV video!
Print
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Creamy Hungarian Vegan Mushroom Soup (Dairy Free)
5 from 29 reviews
Author: Lindsay Cotter
Total Time: 1 hour
Yield: 4-5 servings 1x
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
This recipe for vegan mushroom soup makes a rich, creamy dairy free soup that’s perfect for lunch or a light dinner. Gluten free and packed with nutrients!
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
4 tablespoons unsalted butter (I used plant-based butter. See notes for vegan option) 
1.5 cups chopped onions
1 lb fresh mushrooms, sliced. (~3 to 4 cups sliced). _Cremini_ or white button mushrooms.
1/3 cup dry white wine, OPTIONAL. Can be left out.
2 teaspoons dried dill weed or 1.5 tablespoons fresh (finely chopped) 
1 tablespoon hot paprika and pinch of smoked paprika (smoked paprika is optional)
1 tablespoon tamari sauce or coconut aminos 
2.5 cups vegetable or chicken broth
1 cup non dairy milk
3 tablespoons arrowroot flour (tapioca starch may be subbed but texture will vary).
1 teaspoon kosher salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
1/2 cup greek yogurt or full fat coconut milk (canned and chilled for vegan option)
Instructions
1. Heat a large pot over medium heat. Place butter in pot and melt, coating the pan.
2. Place your onions in the pot and saute for 5 minutes. Add the sliced mushrooms and saute for an additional 5 minutes until mushroom are browned and coated in butter. Onions will brown as well.
3. Stir in the wine, dill, paprika, tamari sauce and broth. Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer for 15 minutes.
4. In a separate small bowl, whisk the thickening mixture; non dairy milk and arrowroot flour. Pour the flour milk mix into the soup and stir thoroughly to blend. Cover pot and simmer for 15 more minutes, stirring occasionally. 
5. Finally, stir in the salt, ground black pepper, lemon juice, parsley and yogurt (or solid coconut cream). Mix together and allow to heat through over low heat, about 3 to 5 minutes. Do not boil.
6. Garnish with extra chopped parsley and cracked pepper. Serve immediately or let it cool and store in airtight container in fridge. 
7. May be placed in freezer for up to 3 months. 
Notes
3 tablespoons refined avocado oil or olive oil may be substituted for butter
To lower carbs, use full fat coconut cream versus yogurt. For solid coconut cream or milk, be sure to keep the can in the fridge to chill._
This recipe was inspired by one of my favorite ALL RECIPES!
Prep Time: 15
Cook Time: 45
Category: Soups
Method: stove top
Cuisine: Hungarian
Nutrition
Serving Size:
Calories: 189
Sugar: 5 g
Sodium: 791.1 mg
Fat: 14.5 g
Saturated Fat: 8 g
Carbohydrates: 10.2 g
Fiber: 2 g
Protein: 6.9 g
Cholesterol: 37.3 mg
Keywords: vegan mushroom soup, gluten free, paleo, vegetarian, dairy free, healthy soup recipe
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @cottercrunch on Instagram and hashtag it cottercrunch
Alright my friends! Grab a spoon, dig in, and let’s celebrate a cozy weekend with soup for soul. 😉
P.S This is a great recipe to make for the last week of the anti-inflammatory kickstart challenge. Hint Hint!
Cheers,
LC
7388 shares
Share
Tweet
Pin
Categories: Grain Free, Low Carb, Main Dishes, Paleo, Stews and Soups, Vegan, Vegetarian Tags: kid friendly, mushrooms, soups
You May Also Like...
Roasted Butternut Squash Soup with Persimmon {Vegan, Paleo}
Creamy Fennel Roasted Cauliflower Soup (Vegan)
Thai Chicken Soup
How to Make Riced Veggies for Recipes
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Have a question? Use ctrl+f or ⌘+f on your computer or the “find on page” function on your phone browser to search existing comments!
Primary Sidebar
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Sign up now & get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Nourishing Superfood Bowls Cookbook
Reader Favorites
Anti-Inflammatory Meal Plan {Dairy Free, Gluten-Free Recipes & Tips}
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites + Video
Curried Cauliflower Rice Kale Soup {Vegan, Whole30}
How to Make Gluten Free Roux for Keto Sauces + Soups
Dried Orange Slices (Oven or Dehydrator)
Cranberry Balsamic Roasted Chicken {Paleo} + VIDEO
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Recipes by Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
Recipes by Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
Power Bowls
Sides & Salads
Snacks & Appetizers
More
Meal Plans
Quick Meals
Recipes with Video
Recipe Round Ups
Recipes
Meal Plans
Shop
About
Start Here
Copyright © 2021 · Cotter Crunch · Disclaimer & Terms · Privacy Policy
7388 shares
