https://www.cottercrunch.com/homemade-gluten-free-graham-crackers/
Get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Cookbook
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Cotter Crunch
Delicious Healthy Gluten Free Recipes
Recipes
By Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
By Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Condiments
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
No Bake Bites
Power Bowls
Sides and Salads
Slow Cooker & Instant Pot
Snacks and Appetizers
Stews and Soups
Quick Meals
Videos
Meal Plans
Shop
Cookbook
Favorite Products
eBooks
Printables
About
Start Here
Search this website
Search this website
Homemade Gluten-Free Graham Crackers (Vegan Option)
by Lindsay Cotter · 05/17/2021
GFDairy FreeVeganJump to Video
Jump to Recipe
5 from 3 reviews
Made with almond flour, gluten-free oat flour/ oats, and non-dairy milk, these Gluten-Free Graham Crackers are a year round recipe essential for all your allergy-friendly needs! Make them ahead of time for the perfect s’mores, easy icebox cakes, and more. Vegan options included. _
Next up on our kid-friendly foods list are these vegan graham crackers! Unlike store-bought versions that are loaded with added sugars and mystery ingredients, this recipe is made with natural ingredients for a healthier snack you can feel good about feeding your kids. It’s the perfect allergy-friendly alternative for all your snacking needs. 
Plus, it makes the perfect companion to our Homemade Coconut Marshmallows! Combine the two with your choice of chocolate for the ultimate s’mores you and your kids will love all summer long. Or, use them in dips, to make icebox cakes, and more. Plus, if you’re looking for even more gluten-free alternatives to your favorite desserts, don’t forget to take a look at this 3 Ingredient Gluten Free Pie Crust, the Best Ever Vegan Chocolate Chip Cookies, and my Flourless Banana Bread Bars. 
Let’s not get ahead of ourselves, though. After all, we’ve still got graham crackers to make!
How to Make Graham Crackers from Scratch + Video
While this recipe was originally created for crackers, I also discovered that the same ingredients can be used as a tasty cookie dough recipe! No matter how you choose to eat it, the instructions are the same. To learn how to turn it into extra crispy crackers, be sure to keep reading! 
To start, preheat the oven and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Then, in a large bowl or stand mixer whisk together the oat flour, almond flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add the sugar and cinnamon, and whisk again. 
Next, add the chopped cold butter, and mix until a mealy flour is formed. Add the cold milk, honey, and vanilla, and mix until well combined. Using your hands, form the dough into a ball, wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it sit in the fridge for 30 minutes to chill. 
Once chilled, roll the dough out into a large rectangle using a rolling pin. Carefully, flip the dough onto a baking sheet, and use a sharp knife to cut it into 3x3 inch squares. Remove any excess dough, and use a fork to poke holes about halfway through the squares. For an added touch of sweetness, sprinkle the squares with sugar.
Place the baking sheet in the middle rack of the oven for 7 minutes before flipping it around and cooking the crackers for an additional 7-8 minutes. Allow the crackers to cool, and enjoy! 
Gluten-Free Graham Crackers
Watch this video on YouTube
Using a Stand Mixer Vs. a Food Processor – What’s the Difference Anyway?
For this recipe, I used a stand mixer. In my opinion, it’s a lot easier to control the rate at which you’re adding ingredients and how quickly they are mixed. This control results in more even distribution and a smoother texture. However, a food processor can definitely deliver amazing results as well! Take a look here to learn the differences in how to properly handle and control the food processor to get perfectly smooth graham crackers every time. 
Ingredient Substitutions + PRO TIPS
Make your own oat flour. Grind gluten-free rolled oats in a food blender or food processor. Then measure out the equivalent amount of grams as the gluten-free oat flour suggested. You can see how I made my own oat flour in this banana bread bars post! 
Butter Substitutes – If you’re looking to make this graham cracker recipe entirely vegan friendly, then replace the cold butter with a plant-based and NON-GMO soy-free butter. I recently discovered MIYOKO’s Cultured Plant Butter and Nutiva Vegan Ghee! 
Nut-Free Options – This recipe does call for almond flour, and although I haven’t tried substituting it in this recipe yet, I do think there is room to test. I would suggest substituting almond flour with sunflower seed flour, a combination of coconut flour/tapioca, or millet flour.
How to Vegan Make Graham Crackers Extra Crispy 
If you like your graham crackers on the softer side or want this recipe to be more cookie-like, follow the instructions as they are listed. However, if you want to add a bit more crunch, make sure to roll out the batter extra thin. For the best results you want it to be about 1/16th inch thick. 
Or, if you’d like a thicker cracker that still has a nice crunch, you can simply dry them out after baking. To do this, place them in a warm oven at a temperature between 190-200 degrees Fahrenheit for about an hour. Then, remove the crackers, and let them cool before serving. 
Whichever method you choose, you should be left with golden-brown and perfectly crispy squares. 
Can Graham Crackers for S’mores Be Prepped Ahead of Time? & How to Store Them
Not only can these Gluten Free Graham Crackers be prepped ahead of time, I recommend doing so! After all, you never know when that craving for s’mores will strike. To keep your crackers fresh, be sure to let them cool completely after baking. Then, store them in an airtight container at room temperature. 
If you opt for the fluffier version and choose not to dry out your crackers, they will stay crispy for roughly 2 days. However, if you dry your graham crackers, they will stay fresh for up to 2 weeks! 
For even longer storage times, you can also freeze your graham crackers. Personally, I like to keep the dough on hand. However, they store well when baked, too. Both versions will stay fresh for up to 4 months in the freezer. 
Unique Flavors & Add Ins
Of course, this recipe is super flavorful all on its own, but there’s never any harm in experimenting, right? Luckily, we’ve done it for you. So, if you’re looking to take your homemade graham crackers to the next level and have some fun with your snacks, why not try out a few fun flavors?
For example, you could elevate the sweetness of this recipe by adding cocoa powder. Or, imitate the flavors of your favorite pies by including citrus flavors and spices! For example, include lemon, lime, and orange zest for a key lime pie flavor. Or, add in pumpkin pie spice, cloves, and nutmeg for a more comforting recipe resembling pumpkin or pecan pie.
Feel free to mix and match any combinations you prefer, and take a look at this article for more ideas to elevate your graham crackers! Then, get your kids involved in the kitchen, and have them create their own unique recipes for an experience they won’t forget. 
Print
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Homemade Gluten Free Graham Crackers (Vegan Option)
5 from 3 reviews
Author: Lindsay Cotter
Total Time: 44 minute
Yield: 8\--12 crackers 1x
Diet: Gluten Free
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
Made with almond flour, gluten-free oat flour (or oats), and non-dairy milk, these Gluten-Free Graham Crackers are a year-round essential snack for all your allergy-friendly needs!
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
1\--1/2 cup (150 grams) gluten-free oat flour (see this recipe for making oat flour)
1/4 cup (30 grams) blanched fine almond flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 – 1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 – 1/2 cup raw sugar (or granulated sweetener of choice)
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3 Tablespoons cold butter, chopped (vegan butter may be substituted)
6 Tablespoons cold non-dairy milk
1 Tablespoon honey (or maple syrup for vegan option)
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 350F. Line a large sheet pan or rimless cookie sheet with parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a large mixing bowl or stand mixer bowl, whisk/sift together the oat flour, almond flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add the sugar and cinnamon and whisk again.
3. Change stand mixer to dough paddle. A food processor may be used in place of a stand mixer (see notes).
4. Add the chopped cold butter and place the stand mixer at medium speed. Mix until a mealy flour is formed (see blog photos). 
5. Next, add the cold milk, honey, and vanilla. Mix on medium to medium-high until combined. 
6. Remove the bowl from the stand mixer. Mix dough, by hand, until a soft ball is formed. Wrap dough in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to chill for 1-2 hours or freezer for 15 minutes. 
7. Once the dough has chilled, place the dough on a well floured surface or on wax paper sprinkled with oat flour. 
8. Place plastic wrap on top of the dough. Then using a rolling pin, roll the dough into a large rectangle about 1/8- inch thick. 
9. Carefully flip the dough onto the baking sheet. Use a sharp knife or pastry cutter to cut the dough into 3-inch by 3-inch squares. Gently remove any excess dough.
10. Using a fork, prick the crackers (score). Do not prick all the way through. Sprinkle the cookies with extra raw cane sugar, if desired. 
11. Place the baking sheet in the middle rack of the oven. Bake for 7 minutes, rotate the pan, and bake an additional 7-8 minutes (13-15 minutes in total) or until crackers are golden and firm to the touch. 
12. Allow the crackers to cool before cutting away from each other.
13. They will be crunchy for a couple of days and soften after 2 days if not dried out. See notes for how to dry out the crackers. This helps them last longer! Up to 2 weeks. 
Notes
Food Processor: Take a look here to learn the differences in how to properly handle and control the food processor to get perfectly smooth graham crackers every time. 
To keep extra crispy, roll out the batter extra thin, 1/16 inch thick before baking. Baking time will vary depending on thickness, keep watch so they don’t overbake. Or option two would be to dry out the 1/8th inch graham crackers once baked by placing in a 190-200F oven for about 1 hour. Remove and let cool before storing. 
To make these vegan, use non-dairy substitutes for butter and milk, and maple syrup instead of honey. 
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Chill Time: 1-2 hours
Cook Time: 17 minutes
Category: snack, dessert
Method: oven
Cuisine: american
Nutrition
Serving Size: 2 crackers (1 Square)
Calories: 129
Sugar: 10.1 g
Sodium: 110.3 mg
Fat: 4.5 g
Saturated Fat: 2 g
Carbohydrates: 19 g
Fiber: 0.9 g
Protein: 2.3 g
Cholesterol: 7.6 mg
Keywords: graham crackers, smores, gluten free desserts, gluten free snacks, kid friendly, crackers
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @cottercrunch on Instagram and hashtag it cottercrunch
If you make this recipe, I’d love it if you let me know if you like your crackers on the soft side or a bit crispier as well as any flavor combinations you might have tried in the comments below!
Cheers,
LC
188 shares
Share
Tweet
Pin
Categories: Has Video, Snacks and Appetizers, Vegan, Vegetarian Tags: gluten free desserts, gluten free snacks, graham crackers, kid friendly snack, pantry staples, smores, snacks
You May Also Like...
Spiced Pumpkin Seed Granola (Grain free)
Coconut Almond Protein Bars (Paleo Option)
Vegan Raspberry Thumbprint Cookies
How to Roast Pumpkin Seeds
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Have a question? Use ctrl+f or ⌘+f on your computer or the “find on page” function on your phone browser to search existing comments!
Primary Sidebar
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Sign up now & get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Nourishing Superfood Bowls Cookbook
Reader Favorites
Anti-Inflammatory Meal Plan {Dairy Free, Gluten-Free Recipes & Tips}
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites + Video
Curried Cauliflower Rice Kale Soup {Vegan, Whole30}
How to Make Gluten Free Roux for Keto Sauces + Soups
Dried Orange Slices (Oven or Dehydrator)
Cranberry Balsamic Roasted Chicken {Paleo} + VIDEO
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Recipes by Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
Recipes by Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
Power Bowls
Sides & Salads
Snacks & Appetizers
More
Meal Plans
Quick Meals
Recipes with Video
Recipe Round Ups
Recipes
Meal Plans
Shop
About
Start Here
Copyright © 2021 · Cotter Crunch · Disclaimer & Terms · Privacy Policy
188 shares
