https://www.cottercrunch.com/nomato-sauce-nightshade-free/
Get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Cookbook
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Cotter Crunch
Delicious Healthy Gluten Free Recipes
Recipes
By Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
By Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Condiments
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
No Bake Bites
Power Bowls
Sides and Salads
Slow Cooker & Instant Pot
Snacks and Appetizers
Stews and Soups
Quick Meals
Videos
Meal Plans
Shop
Cookbook
Favorite Products
eBooks
Printables
About
Start Here
Search this website
Search this website
Nomato Sauce (Nightshade Free Tomato Sauce Alternative)
by Lindsay Cotter · 12/30/2020
GFDairy FreeVegan
Jump to Recipe
5 from 4 reviews
Nomato sauce is a dairy free, nightshade free, and anti-inflammatory tomato sauce alternative, and it tastes like marinara sauce! Full of antioxidants and nutrients, too._
Y’all, it’s been one heck of a year, hasn’t it? I say this in both a positive way and a negative way. I mean, there are usually good times intertwined with bad ones, right? 
We’ll get to the nomato sauce recipe in just a minute. But first, let’s focus on the GOOD events of 2020.
1. COOKING FOR NOURISHMENT – We made good food for our bodies this year, and a LOT of it! In total, there were 106 new posts published here, including 6meal plans! 
2. LEARNING- We learned how to eat on a budget, about the benefits of olive oil , and how plant based meals and proteins like tempeh can improve the way we feel. Oh, and let’s not forget about those helpful food storage tips. 
3. COMMUNITY- Even though we still need to socially distance for the health of others and ourselves, we have a helpful and supportive online community of like-minded, gluten free eaters. We spent a lot of time lifting one another’s spirits in a time of uncertainty.
Y’all are kind, decent people, and I’m happy to know you, even if only in a virtual way. Be proud of the fact that you are here at the end of a long year, still standing tall! 🙂
Okay, now let’s talk about one of the most incredible sauces that will ever cross your taste buds! You may think I’m exaggerating, but I’m not- it’s TRUE!
Nomato sauce doesn’t have any real tomatoes in it, because it is nightshade free. We’ll get more into that next month.
The important thing is, nobody will realize that tomatoes are missing from this sauce. Unless you tell them, of course. 
Actually, this tomato sauce alternative just might be the best tasting fake marinara sauce that you will ever eat! Haha.
What’s in nomato sauce?
The ingredients in this anti inflammatory recipe are wholesome and nourishing. You know… REAL FOOD ingredients. 
NOTE: _This isn’t the entire ingredient list… just the key components. You can see the full list and amounts in the recipe card at the bottom of the post._
Beets – You can use purple beets or golden beets. Nutritionally, they are equal. The difference is in the flavor, because purple beets have a sweeter flavor than the golden variety. 
Of course, the color of the sauce will be more of an orange-red color. But hey, you won’t end up with purple fingers after peeling them! 
Beetroot is an antioxidant-rich vegetable. It’s full of nutrients, including:
Vitamins B9 and C
Iron
Potassium
Manganese
Among other things, beets may help reduce inflammation and improve digestion!
Carrots- The beta-carotene and Vitamin A in carrots helps to fight oxidative stress on your eyes. Plus, this is another antioxidant veggie. Woo-hoo… TWO FOR TWO! 
Pumpkin puree – If you prefer another squash, butternut, acorn, feel free to make homemade puree. It’s as easy as boiling or steaming the fresh squash, then pureeing it with a stick blender, or tossing it into a high speed blender for a couple of minutes. 
Garlic- There are plenty of nutritional benefits to be found here! Garlic is a super defense against bacteria and viruses. Supposedly, it’ll chase away a vampire or two as well. Or, so I’ve heard. 😉
Finally, this tomato free pasta sauce is great for almost any dietary need. It’s nightshade free, dairy free, vegan, paleo, nut free, Whole30, and of course, gluten free. 
Watch the recipe video!
This tomato free pasta sauce is made in a snap, using an immersion blender (stick blender) or a traditional blender. Watch this video to see how it’s done!
Nomato Sauce Tomato Sauce Alternative
Watch this video on YouTube
How to make Nomato Sauce
1\. Cook the veggies.
Now, peeling and chopping beets and carrots and then cooking them may seem like a pain, I know, it means extra work. 
One important reason to do this rather than using canned or frozen veggies is for better flavor! Also, you really want the beets to have as much moisture as possible so that the sauce isn’t too thick.
2\. Puree the cooked vegetables.
If you own a stick blender (aka, immersion blender), this is the time to use it! Of course, if this isn’t an option for you, it’s not a problem; you can still make the recipe. 
Just transfer the cooked veggies over to a blender to puree them. Then, add them back to the pan to finish making the nomato sauce.
3\. Adjust the consistency if needed, then simmer.
After you make a puree with the beets, carrots, squash, garlic, and a few spices, you’ll want to adjust the thickness of the sauce to your liking.
This can be done in one of two ways. You can use extra vegetable broth to thin it out. Or, if you’re planning to use it as a tomato free pasta sauce, you can thin the sauce with some of the pasta water. Easy peasy.
RECIPE NOTES
How to store nomato sauce 
Keep the sauce in a sealed container in the fridge, and use it up within a week. For longer storage, it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
For a sweeter sauce, use purple beets. For a lighter, more neutral flavor (with less pink stain), use golden beets. 
It is possible to make this recipe using pre-cooked beets and carrots. However, the flavor will be muted, and the sauce will be much thicker, so you will definitely need to use additional broth.
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Nomato Sauce (Tomato Sauce Alternative)
5 from 4 reviews
Author: Lindsay Cotter
Total Time: 35 minutes
Yield: 2 3/4 cups (11 servings 1/4 C. each) 1x
Diet: Vegan
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
Nomato sauce is a dairy free, nightshade free, and anti-inflammatory tomato sauce alternative, and it’s delicious! Full of antioxidants and nutrients, you can make this easy sauce recipe in your blender.
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
1 tbsp olive oil
2/3 cup chopped yellow onion
2 garlic cloves, minced (or 1 tsp garlic powder)
1 cup diced beets (1 large raw beet, peeled- purple or golden)
1 cup diced carrots (1\--2 large carrots, peeled)
1 tsp Italian seasoning
1 tsp dried oregano
1 pinch kosher or sea salt
1 1/2 cups vegetable broth (use more for a thinner sauce)
1 cup canned or fresh pumpkin puree (or other squash puree)
1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
1 tbsp lemon juice and/or 2 tsp balsamic vinegar for extra tang (I use a combo of both)
Optional add-in: 1 tbsp pitted diced olives, capers, nutritional yeast
Instructions
1. Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat, then add and saute the onions until tender and golden, about 10 minutes. Add minced garlic and saute until fragrant, about 1 minute.
2. Add beets, carrots, Italian seasoning, oregano, and 1/4 tsp salt. Stir together. Add 1 cup vegetable broth. Cover and cook over medium heat until carrots and beets are fork-tender, 20 to 30 minutes. The broth will almost be absorbed by then. Once cooked, transfer ingredients in the pot to a blender. See photos in blog post.
3. Add 1/2 cup broth and pumpkin/squash puree, then blend until smooth. Alternatively , add 1/2 cup broth and pumpkin/squash puree to the pot and use a stick blender to blend into a puree. _Note: For thinner pasta sauce, increase amount of broth to reach desired consistency._ Then, add fresh parsley, lemon juice and/or balsamic vinegar, and any optional add-ins, and blend again until smooth.
4. Transfer ingredients back into the pot (if you used a blender) and simmer over medium heat for 10 minutes.
5. Store in a sealed container in fridge for up to a week, or freeze for up to 1 month.
Notes
For a sweeter sauce, use purple beets. For a lighter, more neutral flavored sauce (with less pink stain), use golden beets.
It is possible to make this recipe using pre-cooked beets and carrots. However, the flavor will be muted, and the sauce will be much thicker, so you will need to use additional broth.
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 25 minutes
Category: sauces
Method: stove top
Cuisine: American
Nutrition
Serving Size: 1/4 c
Calories: 34
Sugar: 2.5 g
Sodium: 96.5 mg
Fat: 1.4 g
Saturated Fat: 0.2 g
Carbohydrates: 5.4 g
Fiber: 1.5 g
Protein: 0.7 g
Cholesterol: 0 mg
Keywords: nomato sauce, dairy free sauce, tomato sauce alternative, anti-inflammatory sauce
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @cottercrunch on Instagram and hashtag it cottercrunch
Alright my friends! Let’s say YES to NOMATO sauce! Sorry, just had to go there. You’re welcome. 
Cheers,
LC
669 shares
Share
Tweet
Pin
Categories: Condiments, Grain Free, Vegan, Vegetarian, Whole 30 Tags: anti-inflammatory, antioxidants
You May Also Like...
Three Herb Tomato Zucchini Salad
Spicy Vegan Ranch (Nightshade Free / AIP Option)
How to Make Sunflower Seed Butter
Easy Vegan Salsa Con Queso
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Have a question? Use ctrl+f or ⌘+f on your computer or the “find on page” function on your phone browser to search existing comments!
Primary Sidebar
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Sign up now & get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Nourishing Superfood Bowls Cookbook
Reader Favorites
Anti-Inflammatory Meal Plan {Dairy Free, Gluten-Free Recipes & Tips}
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites + Video
Curried Cauliflower Rice Kale Soup {Vegan, Whole30}
How to Make Gluten Free Roux for Keto Sauces + Soups
Dried Orange Slices (Oven or Dehydrator)
Cranberry Balsamic Roasted Chicken {Paleo} + VIDEO
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Recipes by Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
Recipes by Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
Power Bowls
Sides & Salads
Snacks & Appetizers
More
Meal Plans
Quick Meals
Recipes with Video
Recipe Round Ups
Recipes
Meal Plans
Shop
About
Start Here
Copyright © 2021 · Cotter Crunch · Disclaimer & Terms · Privacy Policy
669 shares
