https://www.196flavors.com/azerbaijan-kuku/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Asia / Western Asia / Azerbaijan / Kuku
Kuku
March 30, 2019 by Vera Abitbol 11 Comments
Tweet
Share 64
Pin 670
Email
734 Shares
Kuku_ (or _kookoo_ ) is a very popular egg-based Azeri and Persian dish.
Among the 2,000 Azerbaijani dishes that we mentioned in our _dovga_ soup article, kuku (pronounced kyukyu) is the star of breakfasts and appetizers.
What is kuku?
This appetizer gets its origins in Persian cuisine. Generally, this is the name given to dishes whose main ingredients including vegetables, herbs, meat or fish, are bound with eggs and browned on each side on a skillet or, more rarely, in an oven. One should not confuse kuku with an omelet because proportionately, the ingredients of a kuku are used in much greater quantities than eggs.
Related Posts:
By its appearance and texture, kuku is a close cousin to Persian _kookoo_ , Middle-Eastern _eggah_ , a Spanish tortilla or Italian _frittata_.
How to make kuku sabzi
The simplest version and by far the most popular is called _goyerti küküsü_ (with fresh herbs). It is called _kookoo sabzi_ in Iran. It is possible to add fresh mint and spinach to the herbs in the preparation.
It was often served with crushed walnuts or just with whole walnuts on top. It can also be served with a garlicky yogurt sauce, which is by far the most authentic version.
Azeris prepare many different types of them with a wide variety of aromas, including, to name a few, potato kuku ( _kuku sib-zamini_ ), eggplant kuku ( _kuku-ye bademjan_ ), and chicken kuku ( _kuku-ye morgh_ ).
This recipe is validated by ourAzeri culinary expert Feride Buyuran from AZCookBook.com._
SaveSaved
Print
4.67 from 3 votes
Kuku
Goyerti küküsü is a delicious traditional Azeri appetizer prepared with herbs and spinach combined with eggs. It is also known as kuku sabzi in Persian.
Prep Time30 mins
Cook Time15 mins
Total Time45 mins
Course: Appetizer
Cuisine: Azerbaijani, Vegetarian
Servings: 4 people
Author: Vera Abitbol
Ingredients
2 bunches fresh cilantro , finely chopped
1 bunch dill , finely chopped
½ bunch mint , finely chopped
1 scallion , chopped
2 oz. fresh spinach , finely chopped
1 young garlic (green part), finely chopped
5 eggs , beaten
½ teaspoon salt
Ground black pepper
4 tablespoons unsalted butter (clarified butter or olive oil)
For the yogurt sauce
½ cup yogurt
2 cloves garlic , crushed
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
In a large bowl, combine all the ingredients and beat well. Add salt and pepper.
In an 8-inch (20 cm) nonstick pan, melt the butter or oil over medium heat. Pour the mixture and cook on medium-low heat for about 8 minutes.
Using a knife, gently cut the kuku into 4 wedges. Carefully turn each piece to brown the other side. If necessary, add a little butter or oil in the pan.
Mix the yogurt and garlic and serve kuku accompanied by the sauce.
Vera Abitbol
Vera is the “expert” of the 196 flavors’ duo. With over 30 years of experience in the kitchen, she is now sharing her skills as a private chef and cooking instructor.
Tweet
Share 64
Pin 670
Email
734 Shares
Filed Under: Appetizer, Asia, Azerbaijan, Dairy, Gluten-free, Iran, Vegetarian Tagged With: butter, cilantro, dill, egg, garlic, mint, scallion, spinach
Previous Post: « Mantou (Steamed Buns)
Next Post: Souvlaki »
Reader Interactions
Comments
June 15, 2016 at 8:41 am
This looks great. How many cups of chopped cilantro, dill and mint does a bunch equate to?
Reply
June 15, 2016 at 7:08 pm
Hey Lindsay, about 1 to 1-1/2 cup of each for chopped cilantro and dill. And about 3/4 cup for chopped mint.
Reply
June 17, 2016 at 1:53 am
Thanks for the clarification. This is my weekend project. This dish has such amazing visual appeal. 
This blog is absolutely amazing. Thanks for sharing your collective knowledge and wisdom.
Reply
June 17, 2016 at 3:43 am
Thank you SO MUCH Lindsay. It honestly means a lot to us as we try our best to share our love, passion and curiosity for world cuisine. Please share your kuku with us on our Facebook page 😉 Enjoy!
Reply
March 24, 2018 at 8:51 am
My friend Amir cooked some thing for me years ago and he used eggplant and called it Kuku too and I love it
Reply
March 24, 2018 at 12:32 pm
Wonderful Rosa. Yes, this version is kuku sabzi, but there are quite a few variations, including with eggplant.
Reply
June 1, 2019 at 4:29 pm
I am Persian and my mom makes the best kuku sabzi
Reply
September 27, 2019 at 4:04 pm
It is very interesting. I love cooking and sharing the recipes with my daughter and other relatives. Thank you.
Reply
September 27, 2019 at 4:36 pm
You are more than welcome, Lana!
Reply
September 3, 2021 at 10:30 am
I’m an Ashkenazi Jew from Azerbaijan 33 years ago. 
I remember my Azeri friends made Kuku (kukya) like you would do a shakshuka but with all greens instead of tomatoes. The point is that you saute all herbs, garlic, spring onion, etc, first when they are still soft like tomatoes in Shakshuka would, and THEN pour eggs on the top and cook to your liking. 
Just a variation.
I’m very interested in worldwide cousin and so glad I found your site when was looking for a Phkaila recipe. 
My friends and I decided we will make a World around tour by cooking foods from different countries. 
I learned how made sushi, egg drop soup, fried rice, Pho soup, etc. So I would be coming here often.
Happy Rosh Hashana, a Sweet New Year, and the very best from my family to yours.
Reply
September 9, 2021 at 7:47 am
Happy (belated) Rosh Hashanah to you and your family too, Marina!
Thank you for your feedback – we really appreciate it. And we are so happy that you’re enjoying our recipes!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
