Instructions
If using store-bought baba ganoush, skip this step. Otherwise, preheat oven to high broil, move a rack to the top of the oven, and line a baking sheet with foil (foil is best for broiling as parchment paper can burn).
Slice the eggplant and arrange on foil-lined baking sheet. Lightly drizzle both sides with oil and sprinkle with sea salt. Then broil for 2-3 minutes on each side, watching carefully as it can burn easily. You’re going for a deep golden brown, not black.
Remove from oven and stack the eggplant. Fold the foil around the eggplant to steam for 5 minutes.
In the meantime, add chickpeas and 2-3 Tbsp (amount as original recipe is written // adjust if altering batch size) of their cooking liquid to a shallow mixing bowl. To a separate small mixing bowl, add turmeric, cumin, ginger, paprika, salt, pepper, and water to thin and mix into a pourable paste. Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more spices for flavor or salt for saltiness.
Pour spice mixture over the chickpeas and mash half of them with a fork, evenly distributing the spices until the chickpeas are coated. Sprinkle the chickpeas with a bit more salt for flavor. Set aside.
Unwrap the eggplant and peel off most the skin – if well steamed, it should peel right off. Don’t fuss too much about getting all of the skin off – a little bit is fine!
Transfer eggplant to a food processor (or mixing bowl) and add lemon juice, tahini, garlic, and another healthy pinch of salt. Blend (or mash/whisk) until a paste is formed (see photo). Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more lemon for acidity, garlic for zing/spice, tahini for creaminess, or salt for saltiness. Set aside.
Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add 1 Tbsp (15 g // amount as original recipe is written // adjust if altering batch size) oil and chickpeas. Stir to coat and cook for 3-4 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add desired amount of baba ganoush – 4-6 Tbsp (amount as original recipe is written // adjust if altering batch size).
Stir to combine and cook for 3-4 minutes more or until the scramble is slightly drying out and taking on a golden-brown color. Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more fresh garlic for garlic flavor/zing, salt for saltiness, or pepper for a little heat. You can also add more baba ganoush for fluffy texture + flavor.
Serve the chickpea scramble as is or with desired garnishes / sides. I love roasted sweet potatoes, avocado, cilantro, and extra baba ganoush on the side. Hot sauce is also delicious.
Best when fresh, though leftovers keep in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Reheat on the stovetop or in the microwave until warm.