https://www.196flavors.com/humitas-en-chala/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Americas / Latin America / Argentina / Humitas En Chala
Humitas En Chala
July 8, 2021 by Hands Doing Things 3 Comments
Tweet
Share
Pin 24
Email
24 Shares
What are humitas?
Traditionally from Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru, _humitas_ is a dish of pre-Columbian origin prepared with corn, tomatoes and cheese.
Where does the word humitas come from?
The noun “humita” is derived from the word “huminta”, which comes from the Quechua word _humint’a_. In Corrientes, an Argentinian province, it is known as “mbutacá”, a Guarani expression.
In Paraguay it carries the Guarani name of “ka’i ku’a” whose translation into Spanish is “monkey waist”. It received this name because the way of tying the humitas resembles a form similar to the waist of the monkeys. It is a very traditional dish in some Paraguayan towns as it was widely consumed by the Guarani Indians.
Related Posts:
In Venezuela humitas en chala are called “cachapa de hoja”, which means “leaf cachapa”. In this case they are prepared with sweetcorn, or _bollito_ (bun), if made with white corn.
Regional variations
Traditionally from the Andean region, humitas is a very popular dish among different Latin American countries and their cuisines.
In Argentina there are two types of humita, _en chala_ and _en olla_ (in pot).
The preparation method for both is exactly the same (the same corn cream is made with the same ingredients) but the difference lies in the fact that, in the case of “en chala”, once the mixture is ready, small portions are taken and wrapped in the corn husks, and shaped into small packages to be boiled in salted water for several minutes.
Argentinian humitas don’t include meat.
To make the corn cream ( _crema de choclo_ ) it is necessary to grate or mechanically process the corn kernels. Although both methods are accepted, the difference is that in the first method the cream is prepared without any of the corn skin, so it’s softer. If mechanically processed, it is a little more doughy, with more texture.
In addition, some people also add pumpkin to the preparation.
In the Pampas region of Argentina, the filling of empanadas made with corn or corn cream is also called humita. The full name of this dish is _empanadas de humita_.
In Bolivia it is mostly consumed in the regions of Tarija, La Paz, Cochabamba and Chuquisaca. In this country, humintas are baked, steamed or grilled, and don’t have all the ingredients of Argentinian humitas, but only corn, butter, cheese and aniseed.
On the other hand, in the Chilean region, humitas are prepared in a very similar way to the Argentinian ones, except that sometimes they also contain basil and green chili.
In Ecuador, humitas are a very traditional dish, and are also called _choclotanda_. They are prepared in a similar way to those listed above, except that instead of butter they use pork fat, and the seasoning may vary. Such is the consumption of this dish, that there are specific pots to prepare it.
As in most countries, humitas can be made both sweet and savory.
Finally, in Peru the cream that forms the humita is prepared with corn, cheese, raisins, sometimes meat and a variety of spices.
In this country, one of the oldest references to this food appears in the work, “Comentarios Reales” (Royal Commentaries) by Inca Garcilaso de la Vega. It dates from 1539, and tells of his memories, in which he recalls having eaten humitas during his stay in Peru.
SaveSaved
Print
5 from 1 vote
Humitas en Chala
Traditional in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Venezuela and Peru, humitas is a dish of pre-Columbian origin that’s made from corn, tomatoes, and cheese.
Prep Time1 hr
Cook Time55 mins
Total Time1 hr 55 mins
Course: Appetizer, Breakfast, Side Dish
Cuisine: Argentinian, gluten free, Latin American, Vegetarian, Venezuelan
Servings: 6 people
Calories: 582kcal
Author: Hands Doing Things
Ingredients
20 ears corn , with their leaves
¼ cup butter
2 tablespoons neutral vegetable oil
1 large onion , finely chopped
2 garlic cloves , crushed
2 lbs tomatoes , peeled, seeded and finely diced
½ cup milk
2 red peppers , finely chopped
2 tablespoons paprika
3½ oz mozzarella , grated
3½ oz gruyere-type cheese , grated
½ cup parmesan , grated
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon oregano
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon (optional)
2 bay leaves
Salt
White pepper
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Wash and peel the ears of corn without tearing their leaves. Cut strips about ¼ inch (0.5 cm) wide along the length of a few corn husks that will serve as ties for the humitas. Keep the rest whole. Set aside.
Remove the corn from the cob using a grater or a sharp knife.
Heat the oil and butter in a skillet over medium heat.
Fry the onion for 1 minute, then add red pepper and garlic, and sauté until the onion is translucent.
Add the tomatoes, paprika, oregano, cinnamon, salt and white pepper, and mix well.
Fry for 15 minutes, stirring regularly.
Remove from the heat, and add the corn, milk, cheese and sugar, and mix well.
Place 2 corn leaves crosswise onto a work surface.
Place 2 tablespoons of corn stuffing in the center.
Wrap the contents as if they were bundles, and tie them with the corn strips cut for this purpose.
Heat a large amount of salted water in a pot and add the 2 bay leaves.
Place the humitas into the water, and boil for 30 minutes.
Serve hot.
Video
Nutrition Facts
Humitas en Chala
Amount Per Serving 
Calories 582 Calories from Fat 261
Daily Value
Fat 29g 45%
Saturated Fat 17g 106%
Trans Fat 1g
Cholesterol 59mg 20%
Sodium 424mg 18%
Potassium 1357mg 39%
Carbohydrates 69g 23%
Fiber 9g 38%
Sugar 27g 30%
Protein 24g 48%
Vitamin A 3771IU 75%
Vitamin C 97mg 118%
Calcium 412mg 41%
Iron 3mg 17%
Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet.
Sources 
Wikipedia (ES) – Humita 
Ministerio de Desarrollo Social 
El Universo
Hands Doing Things
Hands Doing Things_ is the brainchild of Sabrina and Bianca, who combined their passion for food with their professional careers of writing & photography, and filmmaking & design.
Tweet
Share
Pin 24
Email
24 Shares
Filed Under: Americas, Appetizer, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Dairy, Ecuador, Gluten-free, Latin America, Paraguay, Peru, Side, Vegetarian, Venezuela Tagged With: bay leaf, bell pepper, butter, cinnamon, corn, garlic, gruyere, milk, mozzarella, onion, oregano, paprika, parmesan, sugar, tomato
Previous Post: « Pan Dulce
Next Post: Jägerschnitzel »
Reader Interactions
Comments
September 21, 2021 at 10:14 am
I wish there were sources on the information on the origin of Humitas!
Reply
September 22, 2021 at 6:13 am
Because they originated with indigenous people, and date back so far, there’s virtually no documented evidence of their history, Franc. Which is a shame, I agree. However, I can tell you that they were originally called “jumint’a”, and we cooked in earth ovens!
Reply
October 16, 2021 at 3:28 am
A not-so-common dish made of corn. Very interesting. I’ll try this one.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
