https://www.smalltownwoman.com/warm-bacon-honey-mustard-potato-salad/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Recipe Index
All Recipes
Appetizer
Breakfast
Dessert
Dinner
Lunch
Other
Salad
Side
Soup
About
Privacy Policy
Contact
Navigation Menu: Social Icons
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Search
menu icon
search icon
Search
Home
Recipe Index
About
Contact
Honey Mustard Potato Salad
December 19, 2019 by Beth Pierce 43 Comments
THIS POST MAY CONTAIN AFFILIATE LINKS. PLEASE SEE MY FULL DISCLOSURE POLICY FOR DETAILS. AS AN AMAZON ASSOCIATE I EARN FROM QUALIFYING PURCHASES.
Jump to Recipe·Print Recipe
This delectable Honey Mustard Potato Salad combines roasted red potatoes, crisp bacon and a mouthwatering good honey mustard vinaigrette that is drizzled over the top. This potato salad is served warm so be ready to serve shortly after the potatoes come out of oven. Prepare to have your taste buds tantalized. My family loves it when I serve it with Grilled Marinated Chicken and Oven Baked Barbecue Beef Brisket
How do you make Honey Mustard Potato Salad?
Start by cooking your bacon in the oven. Simply place it flat in a single layer on a baking. Bake for about 15 minutes flipping halfway through the baking process. Move the bacon to paper towels however do not wash or clean the bacon grease off the baking sheet. Instead place your potatoes halves cut side down on the baking sheet. Bake for about 30 minutes flipping halfway through the roasting process.
In a small bowl whisk together vinegar, Dijon mustard, honey, garlic, salt and pepper. Slowly whisk in the olive oil. Then grad a cutting board and coarsely chop the bacon. Finally gently toss the potatoes with the bacon, vinaigrette and freshly chopped parsley.
Helpful tips for making Warm Bacon Honey Mustard Salad
Red potatoes are best for this potato salad as they hold up well during roasting.
The bacon should be cooked crispy and coarsely chopped
Feel free to mix the vinaigrette ahead of time and store in the fridge. Remove from the refrigerator 45 minutes in advance to warm to room temperature.
For best flavor sprinkled with fresh Italian parsley right before serving.
Other mouthwatering sides you will love!
Zesty Sweet Four Bean Salad
Roasted Honey Mustard Brussels Sprouts
Bacon Wrapped Asparagus
Beet Salad with Honey Mustard Vinaigrette
Irish Colcannon
Southern Collard Greens
This post was originally published March 1, 2016 and was republished December 19, 2019 with new content.
Print
Honey Mustard Potato Salad
Print Recipe
5 from 7 reviews
An easy roasted red potato salad sprinkled with crispy bacon, fresh Italian parsley and drizzled with a tasty honey mustard vinaigrette. It is the perfect accompaniment to chicken, beef, pork and fish.
Author: Beth Pierce
Prep Time: 10
Cook Time: 45
Total Time: 55 minutes
Yield: 4 servings 1x
Category: side - potato
Method: bake
Cuisine: southern
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
2 lbs. small red potatoes cut in half
4 slices bacon
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
2 teaspoons honey
2 cloves garlic minced
1/2 teaspoon sea salt
1/4 teaspoon fresh ground pepper
1/3 cup olive oil
1/4 cup fresh Italian parsley torn
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Lay bacon on cookie sheet and bake for 7 minutes. Flip and bake for another 7 minutes or until crispy. Move bacon to paper towels.
2. Using same cookie sheet with bacon grease on it. Lay potatoes cut side down. Bake for 15 minutes. Flip and bake for another 15 minutes.
3. Combine vinegar, Dijon mustard, honey, garlic, salt and pepper. Whisk in olive oil slowly to combine. Coarsely chop bacon. Gently toss potatoes with bacon, dressing and parsley.
Notes
Red potatoes are best for this potato salad as they hold up well during roasting.
The bacon should be cooked crispy and coarsely chopped
Feel free to mix the vinaigrette ahead of time and store in the fridge. Remove from the refrigerator 45 minutes in advance to warm to room temperature.
For best flavor sprinkled with fresh Italian parsley right before serving.
Keywords: honey mustard vinaigrette, potato salad, mustard potato salad, warm potato salad, warm honey mustard potato salad, warm bacon potato salad, mustard potato salad recipe, Dijon mustard potato salad, honey mustard potato salad_
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @https://www.instagram.com/smalltownwomanfoodnut/ on Instagram and hashtag it smalltownwomanfoodnut
On the hunt for more delicious recipes? Follow Small Town Woman on Facebook , Pinterest , and Instagram .
https://www.smalltownwoman.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Beth-1.pdf
Nutrition Disclaimer: All nutritional information shared on this site is an approximation. I am not a certified nutritionist and any nutritional information shared on this site should be used as a general guideline.
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. Jennifer Fortino
August 31, 2021 at 4:12 pm
A delicious alternative to a mayonnaise based potato salad
Reply
Beth Pierce
September 02, 2021 at 8:50 am
Thanks Jennifer! So glad that you liked it!!
Reply
2. Katie
January 31, 2020 at 12:12 am
My dad always goes crazy for this!
Reply
3. stephanie
January 30, 2020 at 10:25 pm
This potato salad was absolutely delicious.
Reply
4. Krissy Allori
January 30, 2020 at 5:27 pm
I’ve been looking for a good potato salad recipe to have this weekend with my ribs. This sounds like it will fit the bill perfectly! Thanks!
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe rating _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Small Town Woman
Search
Feature Your Favorites
Subscribe for WHOLESOME RECIPES YOU CAN SINK YOUR TEETH INTO
Follow on Social Media
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Copyright © 2013–2022 ·Small Town Woman
Sharing is Caring
Help spread the word. You're awesome for doing it!
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Yummly
Privacy Policy
