https://www.cheftariq.com/recipe/kaak/
Skip to content
Subscribe to be the first to learn about a new recipe. Sign up today!
Home
RecipesExpand
Appetizers
Bread
Breakfast
Chicken
Dessert
Fish
Meat
Mezze
Middle Eastern Favorites
Salads
Side Dishes
Soups
Vegetables
Vegetarian
Guides
AboutExpand
About Chef Tariq
Work With Me
Press
Contact
Search
YouTube Instagram Pinterest Facebook
Toggle Menu
Recipes
The Original Kaak of the Middle East
Published:February 13, 2021May 25, 2021 Updated:May 25, 2021
Jump to Recipe Jump to Video Print Recipe
Bread is one of my very favorite foods to eat, and this Kaak recipe is no exception!
Known as Ka’ak in Arabic, this sesame bread is very popular in the countries of the Levant.
Contents hide
1. What is Kaak?
2. How to Make Kaak
3. Modern vs Traditional Bread
4. Importance of Bread in Middle Eastern Cuisine
5. Ka'ak Recipe
6. Nutrition Per Serving
It is said that the most famous of which is the Palestinian Kaak from Jerusalem (ka’ak il qudss).
Soft, and full of air pockets on the inside, with a crunchy crust smothered in sesame seeds on the outside!
What’s not to like?!
The Ka’ak sellers stand on the sidewalks with their wooden trays in front of them stacked high.
Baked in different bakeries around town, you will find a particular kaak (sesame bread) that you like best.
Calling to passers by, and selling to their regular customers, the kaak men congregate in one spot.
Although there are the roaming ka’ak men who wander the neighborhoods carrying their wooden trays on their heads.
Bringing fresh heavenly Ka’ak to your door.
It is also customary to sell baked eggs along with the Ka’ak.
Baked eggs eaten in a Kaak is a well known combination for breakfast in the Fertile Crescent.
And Za’atar is often given away for free, also a great accompaniment to this kind of bread.
What is Kaak?
Kaak is a type of bread that is commonly baked in places such as Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria.
The bread is made into a large ring shape that resembles a large donut or bagel but with a bigger opening.
It is common to see Kaak sold on the street by vendors who make the bread fresh every day.
Kaak is eaten mainly as a sandwich or to accompany breakfast.
When eaten for breakfast kaak is paired with za’atar, which is a spice mixture condiment.
Other common breakfast foods like baked eggs, hummus and falafel also go well with this bread.
In Lebanon, Ka’ak takes on more of a desert style instead of the savoury version described above.
After preparing Kaak with sweet dough and topping with sesame seeds the bread is covered in a milk and sugar mix similar to a donut glaze.
So whether you like it savory, or sweet, you can prepare and enjoy your Kaak the way that is preferable to you.
How to Make Kaak
Mix together bread flour, salt, yeast, and powdered milk.
To this mixture add the olive oil and water, mix all ingredients together using your hand to bring the dough together.
You can also use a stand mixer utilizing the dough hook to mix and knead.
Knead for 10 minutes and if you notice the dough is too wet, add some flour, and if too dry add a dash of water.
You want dough that is just a tad sticky, and not too dry.
After mixing, cover the dough and put in a warm place and allow it to double in size.
Pour out the risen dough onto a well floured surface.
Cut the dough into four even pieces.
With flour on your hands make a whole in the middle of each piece of dough and shape each into a circle.
Slowly stretch and shape the kaak, going slowly so as not to tear the dough.
Place them on a parchment paper lined baking sheet.
Cover with a damp kitchen towel and let rise.
Preheat your oven to 450°F (230°C).
For the egg wash, separate an egg, placing the white into a small bowl, add the water and whisk.
Using a pastry brush gently cover each piece of dough with the wash, once done rising.
Generously sprinkle the sesame seeds onto the rings of dough.
Finally bake for 30 minutes or until the kaak is a golden brown color.
You are now ready to enjoy a most wonderful experience!
Modern vs Traditional Bread
Most things have remained the same in baking techniques and methods.
The only big difference is that today it is a common practice to use dough conditioner to enhance the bread.
This is true the world over when it comes to large bread production.
Conditioners make the texture and appearance of bread more uniform.
It gives the bread a softer feel, which sadly, is what it seems many people are looking for in their bread.
The supermarket’s so called bread has ruined people’s perception of what real, good, wholesome bread looks and tastes like.
Gone is the individual shape of each loaf, gone is the deep flavor of a bread that was born through a starter.
No more is the bread that’s allowed to rise several times, developing a good gluten structure, and disappeared is the crunchy crust.
Replaced with a bouncy, air filled, soft, flavorless mass.
The bread in the supermarket is just a bad invention in my opinion.
Especially when it comes to flavor, texture, and nutrition.
Speed however, is a different thing altogether.
This stuff can be baked in no time, and on store shelves with minimal effort.
How sad.
Taking time over making your bread is what makes it such a wonderful process.
I delight in the feel and texture of a well made bread dough.
Nothing feels quite like it.
It’s an interactive experience that relies on the love you put into it as you create something unique to you.
I recommend everyone take up bread making.
A joy of joys, in my humble point of view!
Importance of Bread in Middle Eastern Cuisine
I have so much fun trying the different breads from the different bakeries, and restaurants in any town I visit.
You may think that a pita is pita is pita.
However, that would be a wrong assumption.
There are all different types of pita.
The bigger ones, the smaller ones, the thinner ones, the thicker ones, the ones more cooked and crunchy, the ones that are less so.
There really is a big difference, and everyone has their preference.
Bread is a very important part of Middle Eastern cuisine given there is so much dipping in food that goes on during meal time.
Print Recipe
Leave a rating!
Ka'ak Recipe
Fluffy on the inside, crunchy on the outside, smothered in roasted sesame seeds. What's not to like? 
Author: Chef Tariq
PREP TIME15 minutes
COOK TIME30 minutes
Rising time1 hour
TOTAL TIME1 hour 45 minutes
Servings: 4
Cuisine: Middle Eastern
Ingredients
US Customary \- Metric
3¼ cups Bread Flour
¼ cup Powdered Milk
1½ tsp Salt
1 tsp Baking Soda
2¼ tsp Yeast instant
1 tbsp Olive Oil extra virgin
1½ cups Water warm
For Topping
¼ cup Sesame Seeds toasted
2 tbsp Water
1 Egg White
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400°F (200°C). 
Mix together the flour, powdered milk, salt, yeast and baking soda.
Add the olive oil and warm water.
Mix together using your hand to bring the dough together. Knead for 10 minutes. 
Cover the dough and put in a warm place and allow to double in size.
Pour out the risen dough onto a well floured surface. Cut into four pieces. With oil on your hands make a hole in the middle of each piece of dough and shape each into a ring.
Mix the egg white with the 2 tbsp of water and whisk together. Brush each bread round with the egg white wash. 
Generously sprinkle the sesame seeds onto the rings of dough. 
Bake for 30 minutes or until golden brown.
Notes
When making bread it is important to have a very hot oven. Using a baking stone is always preferred if possible.
If the dough is too wet, add some flour, and if too dry add water. You want dough that is just a tad sticky and not too dry.
Nutrition Per Serving
Calories: 482kcal \- Carbohydrates: 81g \- Protein: 17g \- Fat: 9g \- Saturated Fat: 2g \- Cholesterol: 47mg \- Sodium: 517mg \- Potassium: 619mg \- Fiber: 3g \- Sugar: 3g \- Vitamin A: 160IU \- Calcium: 344mg \- Iron: 2.8mg
DID YOU MAKE THIS RECIPE?Tag @cheftariqcooks or hashtag it cheftariq!
Post Tags: bagelbreadkaakmefsesame
Post navigation
Previous Previous
Sahlab (Middle Eastern Milk Pudding)
NextContinue
Pita Bread (Time-Honored & Tasty)
Similar Posts
Recipes
Crunchy Sponge Candy (Chocolate Covered)
ByChef Tariq November 8, 2020May 25, 2021
Sponge candy is a delicate, light toffee candy that will be a hit with your friends and family. 
Read More Crunchy Sponge Candy (Chocolate Covered)Continue
Recipes
Burghul Salad
ByChef Tariq September 25, 2019May 20, 2021
Enhance your salad with nutty burghul and you won’t be disappointed!
Read More Burghul SaladContinue
Recipes
Spicy Shrimp
ByChef Tariq April 18, 2019May 20, 2021
When you want something light, delicious, and spicy, there is no other way to go. This fills all the senses!
Read More Spicy ShrimpContinue
Recipes
Bruschetta Pizza With Garlic & Feta
ByChef Tariq June 22, 2020October 28, 2021
A slice of bruschetta pizza in one hand, and a glass of chilled white wine in the other. Sounds like a little bit of heaven to me!
Read More Bruschetta Pizza With Garlic & FetaContinue
Recipes
Tabouli Salad (The Lebanese Way)
ByChef Tariq March 1, 2021May 25, 2021
Tabouli salad is definitely a staple of the Levantian kitchen, made slightly differently from country to country.
Read More Tabouli Salad (The Lebanese Way)Continue
Recipes
Buffalo Chicken Stuffed Peppers (Cheesy & Delicious)
ByChef Tariq May 27, 2021June 5, 2021
When you feel like something spicy and cheesy try these cheesy buffalo chicken stuffed peppers.
Read More Buffalo Chicken Stuffed Peppers (Cheesy & Delicious)Continue
5 Comments
February 22, 2020 at 5:55 pm
Chef T., Can I use the same amount of bread machine yeast? And, how long is the second and third rise? Is it one hour or one hour and a half? Afraid of over-proofing. Also, I like the fact that there is no sugar involved!
Reply
February 23, 2020 at 3:28 pm
You can use the same amount of bread machine yeast as this should be just normal instant yeast. There’s only two rises needed for this recipe. The first needs to be risen until it has doubled in size (this is a better measurement than time as there are many factors in the environment that affect rising time). For the second, let it rise until you can poke the bread with your finger and that indent stays. Let me know how it goes!
Reply
February 23, 2020 at 4:54 pm
Awesome! Thank You So Much!
Reply
July 4, 2020 at 1:57 pm
I made it and so good. Chef, on your video it says 500 F but your written recipe is 400 F, I followed your written recipe and it turns out good as well.
Reply
July 11, 2020 at 10:30 am
Hi Lalaine,
Thank you for your kind words!
You’re correct! My apologies, there is an error on the video that we thought we rectified.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment 
Name 
Email 
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
Search for:
Search
Hello! I’m Chef Tariq.
Welcome to ChefTariq.com, your 1 resource for Middle Eastern recipes! I’m Tariq, raised in Jordan to a Michigan Mother and a Palestinian Father. Influenced by my Sitti and my love for Middle Eastern food, I share my favorite recipes for others to experience and recreate in their own kitchen.
About Chef Tariq
YouTube Instagram Pinterest Facebook
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Copyright 2021 © Chef Tariq. All rights reserved.
My posts may contain affiliate links! If you buy something through one of those links, you won’t pay a penny more, but we’ll get a small commission, which helps keep the lights on. Thanks!_
Scroll to top
About
Appetizers
Bread
Breakfast
Chicken
Contact
Dessert
Fish
Guides
Home
Instagram
Meat
Mezze
Middle Eastern Cookbook
Middle Eastern Favorites
Press
Privacy Policy
Recipe Index
Recipes
Salads
Side dishes
Soups
Vegetables
Vegetarian
Work With Me
Toggle Menu Close
Search for:
Search
