http://www.pinchofcinnamon.com/2011/12/cooking-buckwheat.html
Pages
Blog
Recipes
Gourmet travel
Food books
About
Contact us
Videos
Русский
Wednesday, December 14, 2011
Cooking buckwheat 
Buckwheat is one of my favorite grains and something I closely associate with home and Russia. It has a lot of character. When cooked properly it is absolutely delicious on its own. No adds or toppings are necessary. In this sense it is similar to rice. The right way to cook it is nothing complicated, but it really makes a difference. 
In Russia buckwheat is very casual. It is cooked a lot at home kitchens and in foodservice and served either to garnish meat courses or on its own. In most cases it tastes OK, but once I came across a cooking method that makes it completely irresistible. Since then we always cook it this way. What distinguishes the method is that before the usual steaming you slightly toast the buckwheat grains in a dry pan and then fry them in vegetable oil. This opens up their delicious nutty aroma. 
I really like adding sauteed onions and carrots to the ready buckwheat. Both are sweet and very much in harmony with its flavor. They also make it more balanced in case you serve it as a vegetarian meal. 
Buckwheat with carrots and onions 
serves 4 
1 cup buckwheat 
2 tbs vegetable oil 
2 cups water 
salt to taste 
For the carrot and onion topping: 
3 tbs vegetable oil 
1 medium onion 
1 medium carrot 
Set a heavy based pan over medium-low heat. Add the buckwheat and cook it without oil, stirring constantly for 3-5 minutes. It easily gets burned, so is important to keep the heat medium-low and to keep stirring. You will hear the grains cracking and will smell the delicious nutty aroma. 
Add the vegetable oil and cook stirring till the grains get coated and most of the oil gets absorbed. Add the water, cover with a lid and bring to boil. Cook under lid over low heat for 20 minutes. Turn the heat off and let it stand covered for 20 more minutes. It is key that you do not open the lid and do not stir the buckwheat till the end of these 20 + 20 minutes. 
Take the lid off and give it a stir (it is preferable to use a fork here to keep the buckwheat airy and friable). Add salt to taste. You could stop here and serve it plain as a garnish. 
For the topping peel and dice the onion and carrot. Set a heavy based pan over medium heat. Add the oil and let it heat up. Add the vegetables and cook stirring occasionally for 15-20 minutes till they get soft. They shouldn't brown. 
Add the sauteed vegetables to the ready buckwheat, give it another stir and enjoy. 
Related posts: 
Rice with green lentils (inspired by Kitchari) 
Pumpkin porridge for Russian winter 
Ukrainian granny's vareniki with mashed potatoes (vegan version) 
Pumpkin fritters 
Oven-grilled vegetables 
Kiev food: a personal guide
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Recipes: Basics and Extras, Recipes: Grains and Legumes, Recipes: Quick meal, Recipes: Russian and Eastern European food, Recipes: Vegan
5 comments:
UnknownDecember 15, 2011 at 2:22 AM
Lovely to read this, I have only just begun cooking buckwheat. One of my favourites is to add it when I am making bread. Yum!
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Maria SorokinaDecember 15, 2011 at 7:50 AM
That's interesting. So you use buckwheat as part of you flour? In which proportion to other kinds of flour do you add it?
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
UnknownApril 13, 2013 at 11:27 PM
Maria, very happy to find these instructions. However, are you using raw or roasted buckwheat? Thanks.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Maria SorokinaApril 14, 2013 at 5:52 PM
Great to hear! I start from raw buckwheat, then toast it in a dry pan.
Delete
Replies
Reply
Reply
seostar2September 11, 2020 at 5:40 PM
It is really worth the time and effort to compare kitchen appliance options. professional kitchen equipment 
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
VIEW ALL OUR VIDEOS
OUR TIP ON LONDON STREET FOOD
HB Pro Tipper
Borough market is very rich for delicious street food and Kappacassein melting cheese...
London Street Food
SEARCH THIS BLOG
POPULAR POSTS
Hünkar Beğendi - Turkish lamb on eggplant mash
I love lamb overall and this particular way to cook it just became my absolute first choice. I first tried the dish couple of months ...
Beard papa's Moscow bakery cream puffs
I found about Beard papa's last winter after they opened their first Moscow shop on Gogolevsky bulvard 6. The Japanese making some...
Turkish baked halva (sicak helva)
Before I came to Istanbul I heard about sicak helva - a kind of custard made of crushed tahini halva mixed with cream and baked . The ...
Eating in Istanbul
A little over a week in Istanbul and I'm in love already. It is proud yet humble. Old yet live and full on energy. Like a wave you ...
Pascha (Russian Easter cheesecake)
This coming Sunday everybody in Moscow is going to celebrate Easter. I was never religious, but Easter for me is a good old family trad...
RECIPE HIGHLIGHTS
Recipes: Breakfast
Recipes: Christmas
Recipes: Cinnamon
Recipes: Pastry
Recipes: Quick meal
Recipes: Vegan
Recipes: Vegan Pastry
SAVORY RECIPES
Recipes: Appetizers and Snacks
Recipes: Drinks
Recipes: Fish and Seafood
Recipes: Grains and Legumes
Recipes: Meat and Poultry
Recipes: Pasta - Noodles - Dumplings
Recipes: Soups
Recipes: Vegetables
PASTRY RECIPES
Recipes: Cakes and Muffins
Recipes: Cookies - Biscuits - Brownies
Recipes: Crepes and Pancakes
Recipes: Other Pastry and Desserts
Recipes: Pies - Tarts - Crumbles
Recipes: Vegan Pastry
RECIPES BY REGION
Recipes: Austrian and German food
Recipes: British and American food
Recipes: French food
Recipes: Hispanic food
Recipes: Indian food
Recipes: Italian food
Recipes: Middle Eastern and North African food
Recipes: Russian and Eastern European food
Recipes: Scandinavian food
Recipes: Thai food
BLOG ARCHIVE
2013 (14)
October (1)
September (1)
July (1)
June (2)
May (2)
April (2)
March (1)
February (1)
January (3)
2012 (54)
December (1)
November (2)
October (2)
September (4)
August (4)
July (4)
June (5)
May (7)
April (4)
March (5)
February (8)
January (8)
2011 (75)
December (10)
Blackcurrant cheese cookies
Cottage cheese and apricot cookie rolls
Ginger bread house making at Taste of Russia (Moscow)
Quinoa with smoky eggplant and roast pepper
A very special red lentils soup
Quince marmalade
Florentine cookies
Cooking buckwheat
Dinner at Uilliam's restaurant (Moscow)
Rice with green lentils (inspired by Kitchari)
November (5)
October (5)
September (5)
August (3)
July (4)
June (5)
May (3)
April (7)
March (6)
February (16)
January (6)
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger. 
2:10 PM]: 2011-12-14T14:10:00+04:00
