Instructions
gobi stuffing recipe:
firstly, heat oil and saute ginger.
further add grated cauliflower (gobi) and saute for 5 minutes.
furthermore add all spices and salt. saute well.
finally, add coriander leaves and keep aside.
assembling and rolling gobi paratha recipe:
firstly, pinch a medium sized ball from chapathi dough, roll about 5 inches in diameter.
place the prepared stuffing in the center.
take the edge and start pleating bringing to center.
and press the pleats from center.
furthermore, sprinkle some flour and roll to of a chapati size.
roasting gobi parata recipe:
firstly, on a hot tava place the rolled paratha and cook both sides.
also add oil / ghee and press slightly.
finally, serve hot gobi parathas with sauce, raita or pickle.
how to make gobi paratha with step by step photo:
gobi stuffing recipe:
1. firstly, in a thick bottomed pan heat oil and saute ginger. 
2. further add grated cauliflower (gobi) and saute. 
3. saute on medium flame for atleast 3- 5 minutes or till the moisture evaporates completely. 
4. also saute till the raw smell of gobi disappears completely.
5. furthermore add turmeric, red chili powder, coriander powder, cumin powder, garam masala powder , aamchur powder and salt. 
6. continue to saute on medium flame till the spices turn aromatic. 
7. finally, add coriander leaves and keep aside. 
chapathi / paratha dough recipe:
1. firstly, in a large mixing bowl, take 1 cup of wheat flour. 
2. also add required salt. you can also add a tsp of oil to make dough more soft. 
3. now add water in batches and knead the dough. use luke warm water to make soft dough. 
4. add more water if required and knead for 5 minutes. 
5. knead till the dough is non sticky, soft and smooth. 
6. furthermore, grease the dough with a tsp of oil to prevent from drying. 
7. finally, cover with moist cloth and rest for atleast 20 minutes. 
assembling and rolling gobi paratha recipe:
1. firstly, pinch a medium sized ball dough, roll and flatten it. also dust with some wheat flour. 
2. further roll it in a circle of about 5 to 5.5 inches in diameter. 
3. place a tbsp full of prepared gobi stuffing in the center. 
4. take the edge and start pleating bringing to center. 
5. also join the pleats together and pinch off the extra part. 
6. further slightly press and flatten with your hand. 
7. furthermore, sprinkle some flour and roll to of a chapati size. 
roasting gobhi parata recipe:
1. firstly, on a hot tawa place the rolled paratha and cook for a minute. 
2. furthermore, when the base is partly cooked (after a minute), flip the paratha. 
3. also brush oil / ghee and press slightly. flip again once or twice till both the sides are cooked properly. 
4. finally, serve hot punjabi gobi paratha s with sauce, raita or pickle. 