Instructions
stuffing recipe:
firstly, take 2 cups of grated radish in a strainer.
mix salt and rest for 20 minutes.
squeeze the radish juice completely.
then add chilli, chilli powder, turmeric powder, coriander powder, dry mango powder and coriander leaves.
mix well making sure to blend spices well with radish.
chapathi / paratha dough recipe:
firstly, in a large mixing bowl, take 1 cup of wheat flour.
also add required salt to taste.
now add water in batches and knead the dough.
finally, cover with moist cloth and rest for atleast 20 minutes.
assembling and rolling aloo paratha recipe:
firstly, pinch a medium sized ball dough, roll and flatten it.
roll it in a circle of about 5 to 5.5 inches in diameter.
place the prepared radish stuffing in the center.
also join the pleats together and press the pleats from center.
furthermore, sprinkle some flour and roll to of a chapati size.
roasting paratha recipe:
firstly on hot tawa, place the rolled paratha and cook for a minute.
then add oil / ghee and press slightly.
flip again once or twice till both the sides are cooked properly.
finally, serve muli paratha with curd, pickle or curry.
mooli paratha recipe | radish paratha step by step photo recipe:
1. firstly, take 2 cups of grated radish in a strainer. 
2. mix salt and rest for 20 minutes. adding salt helps to release water from radish soon. however, you can avoid squeezing juice from radish if you like its flavour. 
3. furthermore, squeeze the radish juice completely. 
4. transfer to a large mixing bowl. 
5. then add chilli, chilli powder, turmeric powder, coriander powder, dry mango powder and coriander leaves. 
6. mix well making sure to blend spices well with radish. keep aside. 
chapathi / paratha dough recipe:
1. firstly, in a large mixing bowl, take 1 cup of wheat flour. 
2. also add required salt to taste. you can also add a tsp of oil to make dough more soft. 
3. now add water in batches and knead the dough. 
4. add more water if required and knead for 5 minutes. 
5. knead till the dough is non sticky, soft and smooth.
6. furthermore, grease the dough with a tsp of oil to prevent from drying. 
7. finally, cover with moist cloth and rest for atleast 20 minutes. 
assembling and rolling aloo paratha recipe:
1. firstly, pinch a medium sized ball dough, roll and flatten it. 
2. roll it in a circle of about 5 to 5.5 inches in diameter. 
3. place the prepared radish stuffing in the center. 
4. take the edge and start pleating bringing to center. 
5. also join the pleats together and press the pleats from center. 
6. furthermore, sprinkle some flour and roll to of a chapati size. 
roasting paratha recipe:
1. firstly on hot tawa, place the rolled paratha and cook for a minute. 
2. furthermore, when the base is partly cooked, flip the paratha. 
3. then add oil / ghee and press slightly. 
4. flip again once or twice till both the sides are cooked properly. 
5. finally, serve muli paratha with curd, pickle or curry. 