Instructions
firstly, in a large mixing bowl take wheat flour and besan.
also add chili powder, turmeric, sesame seeds, carom seeds and salt.
additionally, add green chili and ginger.
now add finely chopped methi leaves.
give a rough mix making sure the spices are combined well.
furthermore, add half cup of curd and combine the dough well.
additionally, add some water and knead the dough.
knead the dough to smooth and soft texture like of chapathi dough.
add 2 tsp of oil and knead the dough for 5 more minutes.
now pinch a medium sized ball dough, roll and flatten it.
also dust with some wheat flour.
further roll it in a thin circle like chapathi or paratha.
now on a hot tawa place the rolled thepla and cook for a minute.
furthermore, when the base is partly cooked, flip the methi thepla
also brush oil / ghee and press slightly.
finally, serve methi thepla with raita and pickle.
how to make methi thepla with step by step photo recipe:
1. firstly, in a large mixing bowl take 2 cups of wheat flour. 
2. also add ¼ cup of besan. besan helps to make thepla soft. 
3. furthermore add chili powder, turmeric, sesame seeds, carom seeds and salt. 
4. additionally, add green chili and ginger. 
5. now add finely chopped methi leaves. make sure to wash the leaves well and discard the stem before chopping. 
6. give a rough mix making sure the spices are combined well. 
7. furthermore, add half cup of curd. curd helps to remove the bitterness in the thepla and also increases the shelf life. 
8. combine the dough well. 
9. additionally, add some water and knead the dough. alternatively, use curd to increases the shelf life. 
10. knead the dough to smooth and soft texture like of chapathi dough. 
11. add 2 tsp of oil. adding oil will make dough more soft. 
12. further, knead the dough for 5 more minutes. 
13. now pinch a medium sized ball dough, roll and flatten it. 
14. also dust with some wheat flour. 
15. further roll it in a thin circle like chapathi or paratha. 
16. now on a hot tawa place the rolled thepla and cook for a minute. 
17. furthermore, when the base is partly cooked, flip the methi thepla. 
18. also brush oil / ghee and press slightly. 
19. flip again once or twice till both the sides are cooked properly. 
20. finally, serve methi thepla with raita and pickle. or take it to the picnic as it stays fresh for 2-3 days. 