https://www.196flavors.com/czech-republic-kyselica/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Europe / Central Europe / Czech Republic / Kyselica
Kyselica
December 23, 2017 by Betty Davies 12 Comments
Tweet
Share 340
Pin 2K
Email
2K Shares
Kyselica_ ( _kyselice_ ) is a traditional sauerkraut soup from the historic Wallachian region in the Czech Republic. It translates as sauerkraut soup. It is a thick soup consisting of potatoes, sauerkraut and smoked meat that dates back several centuries. Kyselica has its origins in the word _kysely_ , a Czech word that means “sour”.
Forest workers traditionally ate kyselica as a breakfast meal. It was said that the soup was so hearty that you would not need lunch. Comprising of inexpensive ingredients that were available in abundance, the nutritious soup would prepare the workers for long days in the outdoors. It was especially eaten during the winter months. 
There are many variants of the soup, and no one can claim to know what exactly the original recipe was. It is thought that the dish originated form Romania, sometime between the 14th and 17th centuries. Romanian shepherds migrated to the area and it is believed that was when the first kyselica recipe was introduced to the Czech Republic.
Originally, the soup didn’t contain meat, but over the years, various smoked meats have been added to the dish, most commonly smoked sausage and bacon.
Related Posts:
Because kyselica dates back many centuries, there are lots of variations of this hearty soup across both the Czech Republic and Northern and Central Europe. Eggs and mushrooms are added to some of the regional variations of kyselica and caraway seeds are added to the aromatics.
In Poland, rye is a traditional ingredient, in their variant called _zur_ , or _zurek_ , and when wheat is used, it is called _barszcz bialy_ (white borscht). Across the border in Slovakia, paprika is added to the soup and this red colored soup is called _kapustnica_.
Czech cuisine has a long standing tradition of soups. Along with kyselica, other popular soups include _kyselo_ and _kulajda_. Kyselo is made from sourdough and has a mushroom base. Kulajda is made with potatoes, cream and mushrooms and uses vinegar and dill as its aromatics.
Sauerkraut is a finely cut cabbage that has been fermented by lactic acid. Fermenting the cabbage means that it has a long shelf life and it has a distinctive sour taste. Sauerkraut is a German word translates to “sour herb” or “sour cabbage”. The process of making sauerkraut is similar to how kimchi is made. Cabbage is finely shredded, layered with salt and stored for a minimum of three days. The natural juices released from the cabbage cause the fermentation process. Sauerkraut is more nutritious than the original cabbage, it is rich in vitamins B, C and K, is low in calories and is a good source of calcium, magnesium and dietary fibers. Sauerkraut is a popular ingredient across northern and central Europe, including Germany, Poland and Ukraine.
Kyselica is prepared in a similar way to other soups. The base ingredients (in this case the potatoes and sauerkraut) are boiled together until soft, and the onions and meats are fried until cooked through. The meat and onion are combined with the potato and sauerkraut and cooked together. Sour cream is stirred in once the soup is ready to create a creamy texture. Like other soups, large batches can be made at a time and refrigerated in an air tight container for three or four days. Alternatively, portions can be frozen and then reheated as required.
Kyselica is served as a main meal and often accompanied with fresh bread such as sourdough. In restaurants, smaller portions can be served as an appetizer. In modern times, it is sometimes served in a bread bowl. Kyselica is a thick and creamy soup with a slight sour taste to it, which comes from the sauerkraut base.
This recipe is validated by our culinary expert in Czech cuisine, Kristyna Koutna. You can find Kristyna on her food blogCzechCookbook.com._
SaveSaved
Print
5 from 4 votes
Kyselica
Kyselica is a deliciously thick traditional soup from the Czech Republic consisting of potatoes, sauerkraut and smoked meat.
Prep Time45 mins
Cook Time1 hr 10 mins
Total Time1 hr 55 mins
Course: Soup
Cuisine: Czech
Servings: 4 people
Author: Betty Davies
Ingredients
1 cup sour cream
12 oz. white potatoes , peeled and diced
5 oz. bacon , cut into cubes
1 tablespoon flour
2 onions , thinly sliced
3 tablespoons butter
1 lb sauerkraut
5 oz. large sausages , sliced
¼ cup whole milk
1½ cup water
4 whole allspice berries (nové koření)
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
2 bay leaves
Salt
Pepper
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
In a saucepan, boil ¾ cup/200ml of water and add the sauerkraut. Cook on medium / low heat for 15 minutes.
At the same time, in a large pot, boil the potatoes in the remaining water. Season with salt and pepper and add the caraway seeds, bay leaves and whole allspice berries. Cook for 30 minutes over medium heat.
Once the potatoes are almost cooked, add the sauerkraut and cooking water and simmer over very low heat.
In a frying pan, melt the butter and brown the onions for two minutes. Add the bacon and sausage. Mix well and cook on medium heat for 5 minutes. Set aside.
Gently heat the milk, add the flour, whisk and pour the mixture into the pot and stir well.
Add the fried onion, sausage and bacon. Increase the heat to medium and cook for 15 minutes without stirring.
Turn off the heat and stir in the sour cream. Season with salt and pepper again.
Serve hot with bread.
Betty Davies
Betty Davies is the lady behind Slow The Cook Down. Originally from London, Betty now lives in Toronto with her husband and two cats. Slow The Cook Down was born from a true love of whiling away hours in the kitchen on lazy Sundays with a glass of wine in hand. She loves experimenting with different flavors and trying out new techniques, whilst keeping it accessible for her readers.
slowthecookdown.com/
Tweet
Share 340
Pin 2K
Email
2K Shares
Filed Under: Central Europe, Czech Republic, Dairy, Europe, Meat, Soup Tagged With: allspice, bacon, bay leaf, butter, carvi, flour, milk, onion, potato, sauerkraut, sausage, sour cream
Previous Post: « Interview with Kristyna (Czech Cookbook)
Next Post: Bábovka »
Reader Interactions
Comments
August 15, 2018 at 5:35 pm
This looks really delicious and I can’t wait to cook this at home tonight for the fam, but I’m not sure what “whole allspice berries” are, is it a common food item to find at the store (say Safeway?). If I can’t find it, will allspice be an okay substitute? Thanks for sharing!
Reply
August 15, 2018 at 8:01 pm
Hey Sam, yes, it is just “whole allspice” if you prefer. Just not ground. Enjoy!
Reply
September 28, 2018 at 4:44 pm
This turned out almost exactly like the kyselica I had at a small locals café in Prague once. Spot on.
Reply
September 28, 2018 at 6:02 pm
I love to hear that Ulrica 😉
Reply
January 24, 2019 at 9:12 pm
I made this and cannot believe how good it was..my husband kept saying “this is really good”
Reply
January 24, 2019 at 11:27 pm
Comfort food at its finest 😉
Reply
September 20, 2019 at 7:02 pm
Wonderful. Made this for a work food day. Everyone loved it.
Reply
January 6, 2020 at 6:50 pm
Two questions: 
Do you drain the sauerkraut first? 
Is 3/4 cup water really enough to boil the potatoes?
Reply
January 7, 2020 at 1:06 am
Hey Cathy, yes, the sauerkraut should be drained. Also, the potatoes are diced, so yes, 3/4 cup of water should be enough, and they can steam too. Enjoy!
Reply
February 23, 2020 at 7:00 pm
What brand of smoked sausage do you use for making kyselica?
Reply
March 10, 2021 at 5:16 pm
Lol talk about unhealthy unkosher food 
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
