https://www.prevention.com/food-nutrition/g20464786/10-healthy-chickpea-recipes/
Search 
Subscribe
Shop
Editors’ Picks
Books
DVDs
Bundles and collections
Prevention Lamps
Premium Exclusives
Health
Novel Coronavirus
Brain Health
Memory
Mental Health
Sleep & Energy
Health Conditions
Condition Centers
Weight Loss
Diets
Fitness
Workouts
Workout Clothes & Gear
Virtual Walk 2021
Sex
Relationships
Food & Nutrition
Healthy Eating
Recipes
Beauty
Skin Care
Makeup
Hair
Style
Life
Valentine's Day
Mother's Day
Gifts
Newsletter
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
About Prevention.com
Win
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Privacy Notice/Notice at Collection Terms of Use 
Health
Beauty
Fitness
Nutrition
Life
Subscribe 
Sign In
My Account Sign Out
Type keyword(s) to search
Today's Top Stories 
1 
12 Face Exfoliators That Will Give You a Glow
2 
25 Easy Leg Exercises to Help You Get Stronger
3 
Hi, Yes, You Totally Need a Hyaluronic Acid Serum
4 
8 Simple Ways to Improve Your Balance
5 
10 Best Waterpiks and Flossers for Healthy Gums
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us?
10 Tasty Ideas For Canned Chickpeas
By Marygrace Taylor
Mar 2, 2015 
G.G. Bruno/Getty Images
1 of 11
Check out these chickpeas 
Bored to death by the idea of tossing that can of chickpeas into your salad for the umpteenth time? It's time to up your game. If you've got a can of the protein- and fiber-packed legumes, you've got the makings for a fast, plant-based meal that satisfies. Here are 10 tasty ideas that'll have you eating in 20 minutes or less.
MORE:13 Vegetarian Dinners That Aren't Boring
Marygrace Taylor
2 of 11
Garlic Chickpeas and Mushrooms on Toast 
Move over, avocado. This warm, protein-packed chickpea and mushroom saute is destined to be your new favorite toast topper. 
SERVINGS: 4
1 Tbsp olive oil 
8 oz mixed mushrooms, sliced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 tsp dried thyme 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
Salt and pepper 
¼ c dry white wine 
1 Tbsp unsalted butter 
4 slices hearty whole grain toast
1\. HEAT olive oil in skillet over medium heat. Add mushrooms and saute until softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and thyme and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add chickpeas, salt, and pepper and cook until heated through, 3 to 4 minutes. 
2\. TURN heat to medium high. Add white wine to the pan and cook until most of the liquid has reduced, 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in the butter. 
3\. TOP the toast slices with the chickpea mixture. Serve warm.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 279 cal, 11 g pro, 43 g carb, 8 g fiber, 5 g sugar, 7 g fat, 1 g sat fat, 422 mg sodium_
MORE: Cook Once, Eat All Week: Chickpeas
Marygrace Taylor
3 of 11
Spanish Chickpeas with Tomatoes & Spinach 
Smoky and sweet, this brothy chickpea dish is often served tapas-style in Spain. But with whole grain couscous or hearty country bread, it works as a satisfying light meal, too.
SERVINGS: 4
1 Tbsp olive oil 
1 med yellow onion, diced 
2 tsp each ground cumin, ground coriander, and smoked paprika 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 15 oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
⅓ c golden raisins 
6 oz fresh spinach 
1 c crushed tomatoes 
½ c water 
Salt and pepper
1\. SAUTE onion in olive oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the cumin, coriander, paprika, and garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute. Add the chickpeas, raisins, and spinach and cook until the spinach is wilted, 2 to 3 minutes. 
2\. ADD the crushed tomatoes and the water, along with salt and pepper to taste. Allow mixture to simmer for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the tomato mixture has thickened slightly. Serve warm.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 227 cal, 8 g pro, 41 g carb, 8 g fiber, 4 g sugar, 5 g fat, 1 g sat fat, 454 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
4 of 11
Chickpea-Brussels Sprout Salad with Parmesan and Walnuts 
Bored with kale salad? Thinly shredded Brussels sprouts tossed with earthy chickpeas and nuts, salty Parmesan, and sweet balsamic vinegar are even better.
SERVINGS: 4
1 lb. Brussels sprouts, trimmed and thinly sliced 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained, rinsed, and dried well 
⅓ c chopped walnuts 
½ c shaved Parmesan cheese 
2 Tbsp olive oil 
1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar 
Salt and pepper
1\. ADD the Brussels sprouts to a large bowl. Drizzle with the olive oil and vinegar. Gently massage the Brussels sprouts with your hands to coat them with the olive oil and vinegar and help them soften slightly. Let sit for 5 minutes. 
2\. ADD the chickpeas, walnuts, and cheese; season to taste. Toss well. Serve at room temperature.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 324 cal, 14 g pro, 33 g carb, 9 g fiber, 3 g sugar, 18 g fat, 3 g sat fat, 469 mg sodium_
MORE:13 Fantastic Brussels Sprouts Recipes
Marygrace Taylor
5 of 11
Chickpea Cacio e Pepe 
Adding chickpeas to this traditional cheesy-spicy Italian pasta dish bumps up the protein—and lets you get away with using fewer noodles, thanks to the healthy starch in these beans.
SERVINGS: 4
8 oz whole wheat spaghetti 
2 Tbsp olive oil 
1 Tbsp unsalted butter 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
½ c grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for serving 
½ tsp freshly cracked black pepper 
Salt
1\. COOK spaghetti according to package directions, reserving 1 cup of the cooking liquid. 
2\. SAUTE chickpeas in oil and butter in wide skillet over medium heat until warmed through 1 to 2 minutes. 
3\. REDUCE heat to medium-low. Add spaghetti to skillet, along with the cheese, pepper, and salt to taste. Add ¾ cup of the cooking liquid and stir until cheese melts and a creamy sauce forms. If mixture seems too dry, add the remaining ¼ c of cooking liquid 1 tablespoon at a time. Serve hot, topped with additional Parmesan cheese, if desired.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 418 cal, 15 g pro, 62 g carb, 10 g fiber, 0 g sugar, 16 g fat, 5 g sat fat, 456 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
6 of 11
Smashed Chickpea Scramble 
You're up for scrambled tofu, but scrambled chickpeas? When you lightly mash them and season them with soy, lemon, and tahini, the answer is yes. 
SERVINGS: 2
1 Tbsp olive oil 
1 sm yellow onion, diced 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
2 Tbsp low-sodium soy sauce 
2 Tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 Tbsp tahini 
1 tsp sriracha 
1 clove garlic, minced 
¼ c chopped scallions
1\. PLACE chickpeas in medium bowl. Use a fork or potato masher to form a slightly chunky mixture with just a few whole chickpeas remaining. Add the soy sauce, lemon juice, tahini, sriracha, and garlic and mix well. Set aside. 
2\. SAUTE onion in olive oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the chickpea mixture, stirring occasionally, for 10 to 12 minutes, or until flavors are blended and some parts of the mixture have become browned and crispy. Garnish with the scallions. Serve hot.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 354 cal, 12 g pro, 50 g carb, 10 g fiber, 1 g sugar, 13 g fat, 2 g sat fat, 1,153 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
7 of 11
Roasted Broccoli and Chickpeas with Pesto 
Instead of the usual pasta, try tossing your favorite pesto with sweet roasted broccoli and creamy chickpeas. Different, but good!
SERVINGS: 4
1 lb broccoli, chopped into florets 
2 tsp olive oil 
Salt and pepper 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
⅓ c store-bought basil pesto
1\. TOSS broccoli with the olive oil, salt, and pepper. Transfer to a baking sheet. Roast at 425˚ for 12 to 15 minutes, or until crispy and lightly browned. 
2\. TRANSFER hot broccoli to a large bowl. Add the chickpeas and the pesto. Toss to coat. Serve warm.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 261 cal, 10 g pro, 27 g carb, 8 g fiber, 1 g sugar, 14 g fat, 2 g sat fat, 475 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
8 of 11
Dilly Chickpea Salad 
Chopped pickles and a little bit of pickle juice are the secrets to making this plant-based tuna salad alternative super flavorful. Try it on a sandwich, or use it for dunking crackers and raw veggies.
SERVINGS: 4
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
¼ c chopped dill pickles 
2 Tbsp olive oil 
2 Tbsp chopped fresh dill 
1 Tbsp pickle juice 
2 tsp Dijon mustard 
Salt and pepper
1\. MASH chickpeas with a fork or potato masher until slightly chunky, with just a few whole chickpeas remaining. 
2\. ADD pickles, olive oil, dill, pickle juice, mustard, and salt and pepper. Stir to combine. Serve at room temperature with veggies and crackers for dunking, or spread on a sandwich or wrap.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 171 cal, 5 g pro, 21 g carb, 4 g fiber, 1 g sugar, 8 g fat, 1 g sat fat, 444 mg sodium_
MORE: How To Cook Roasted Veggies Perfectly Every Time
Marygrace Taylor
9 of 11
Sweet Potatoes with Smoky Yogurt and Chickpeas 
Roast your sweet potatoes ahead of time to get this dish on the table superfast come dinner. Or, just nuke 'em in the microwave for a few minutes while you sauté the chickpeas.
SERVINGS: 4
1 c plain low-fat yogurt 
5 cloves garlic, minced, divided 
2 tsp toasted cumin seeds 
2 tsp smoked paprika 
1 Tbsp plus 2 tsp olive oil, divded 
Salt and pepper 
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
¼ c toasted pine nuts 
4 med baked sweet potatoes, split lengthwise 
Chopped fresh dill
1\. COMBINE yogurt, 2 cloves of the garlic, the cumin, paprika, 2 teaspoon of the olive oil, and salt and pepper in a bowl and mix well. Set aside. 
2\. SAUTE chickpeas and remaining 2 cloves of garlic in remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat until fragrant and warmed through, 3 to 4 minutes. 
3\. SPOON a quarter of the yogurt mixture into one of the sweet potatoes. Top with a quarter of the chickpeas and 1 tablespoon of the pine nuts. Repeat with remaining sweet potatoes. Top with the dill. Serve warm.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 336 cal, 12 g pro, 51 g carb, 8 g fiber, 14 g sugar, 8 g fat, 1 g sat fat, 356 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
10 of 11
Hummus Deviled Eggs 
A generous amount of tahini is the secret to making this hummus as creamy and irresistible as a mayo-laden deviled egg filling—but way more nutrient-dense.
SERVINGS : 12
1 15-oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
⅓ c tahini 
1 Tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 clove garlic 
¼ tsp salt 
4 Tbsp water, plus more as needed 
12 lg hard-boiled eggs 
Smoked paprika and cracked black pepper
1\. PROCESS the chickpeas, tahini, lemon juice, garlic, and salt until a paste forms. With the food processor running, add the water and process for 2 to 3 minutes until smooth and creamy. If you'd like the hummus even creamier, add 1 to 2 tablespoons more water. Set aside. 
2\. PEEL eggs and slice in half lengthwise. Use a spoon to scoop out the yolks. Save yolks for another use or discard. 
3\. SPOON one tablespoon of the hummus into each egg white half. (You may have some hummus left over.) Top deviled eggs with smoked paprika and cracked black pepper. Serve.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 148 cals, 9 g pro, 9 g carb, 2 g fiber, 0 g sugar, 9 g fat, 2 g sat fat, 217 mg sodium_
Marygrace Taylor
11 of 11
Easy Chana Masala with Cucumber Raita 
Yes, you can make this Indian chickpea dish at home—and yes, it is just as flavorful. To take the edge off the heat, top it with creamy dollops of cooling cucumber sauce that comes together while the chickpeas cook.
SERVINGS: 4
2 Tbsp coconut oil 
1 med onion, diced 
2 cloves garlic 
1 Tbsp grated fresh ginger 
1 Tbsp garam masala 
2 tsp each ground cumin and ground coriander 
1 tsp ground turmeric 
10 canned plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped 
1 15-oz can chickpeas 
½ c plain low-fat yogurt 
½ seedless cucumber, shredded 
Salt and pepper, to taste
1\. SAUTE onion in the coconut oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the garlic, ginger, and spices cook until fragrant, 1 minute. 
2\. ADD the plum tomatoes, the chickpeas, and ½ c of water. Simmer 10 minutes, or until the mixture has thickened slightly. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
3\. COMBINE yogurt and cucumber in a small bowl while chickpeas simmer. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve chickpea mixture warm topped with the yogurt.
NUTRITION _(per serving) 233 cals, 8 g pro, 31 g carb, 7 g fiber, 6 g sugar, 9 g fat, 6 g sat fat, 460 mg sodium_
MORE: 14 Surprising Things To Do With Hummus
Next
The Cleanest Packaged Beverages Of 2015 
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io 
More From Food & Nutrition
Why You May Want to Skip the Optavia Diet
Is Starbucks' New Plant-Based Drink Healthy?
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Fit Men Cook’s Kevin Curry Meal Prep Tips for Two
Is Peanut Butter Healthy?
10 Best Water Filters to Remove Bacteria
The Best Healthy Cooking Oils (and Ones to Avoid)
Eating Vegetables May Not Protect Your Heart
The 10 Best Mediterranean Diet Cookbooks in 2022
The Benefits of Probiotics
Created for From Prevention for Created by Prevention for
Align Probiotics 
The Best Meal Kits for Easy, Breezy Dinners
Food & Nutrition
10 Tasty Ideas For Tortillas
10 Tasty Ideas For Sweet Potatoes
10 Tasty Ideas For Spiced Party Nuts
8 Tasty Ideas For Protein-Packed Beans 
4 Dinner Recipes + Tasty Ideas For Your Leftovers
10 Healing Ideas For Bruises
About Prevention.com
Newsletter
Press Room
Give A Gift
Community Guidelines
Subscribe
Media Kit
Advertise Online
Other Hearst Subscriptions
Customer Service
A Part of Hearst Digital Media Prevention participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. 
2022 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Notice/Notice at Collection
Your California Privacy Rights
Interest-Based Ads
Terms of Use
Site Map
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Cookies Choices
