https://www.whiskaffair.com/how-to-make-palak-paneer-paratha/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Meal Type
Salads
Soups
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Subscribe
Search
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
Search
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Salads
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Home » Recipes » Indian » Indian Breads » Palak Paneer Paratha (Spinach Cottage Cheese Paratha)
Published: Mar 11, 2018 | Last Updated On: Jun 25, 2020 by Neha Mathur
Palak Paneer Paratha (Spinach Cottage Cheese Paratha)
300 shares
Jump to Recipe
Here is How to make Palak Paneer Paratha , an Indian flatbread which is as delicious as Palak Paneer Sabzi and is super easy to make as well. Check this step by step recipe and make it now.
Craving for a breakfast that provides instant satiation?
Then without a second thought, always call dibs of this yummy, desi flatbread popularly known as Paratha.
Stuffed or just rolled with spice mix plus one veggie, any time you eat a paratha served with a generous dollop of butter, you know that you aren’t going to feel hungry anytime soon!
Because of the fact that I am North Indian, it is difficult to imagine our weekly breakfast without making parathas at least once or twice a week.
So, Aloo Paratha, Pudina Laccha Paratha, Gobhi ka Paratha, Keema Paratha are some of the instant hits in my family.
Almost as tastier as Palak Paneer Sabzi, Palak Paneer Paratha gets made with a generous layer of spinach, wheat flour which is stuffed with paneer and spices!
Imagine a heavenly green flatbread which oozes out with nicely melted, grated paneer, onions and spices – ain’t that just enough to give a FoodComa , peeps?
To cook this palak paratha, spinach puree is added in the paratha dough and then it is stuffed with a spicy paneer mix.
Roll paratha and then fry until crisp and golden brown. You can serve it with sides of pickle and raita.
This is definitely an improvised version of Paneer paratha as it is much tastier and healthier.
Instead of making a spinach puree to add in the flour, you can also finely chop the spinach and add it in the flour and then knead it.
You might also like
Masala Paratha
Gobi Paratha
Litti Chokha
Namak Pare
Step By Step Recipe
Add spinach and green chilli in a blender and blend to make a smooth paste. Use little water if required. Mix this paste with whole wheat flour and salt. Add water and knead to make a soft dough. Cover the dough and keep aside.
Mix all the ingredients for making the filling in a bowl.
Divide the dough into large lemon sized balls. Dust and roll the dough ball to make a 4-inch circle.
Keep 2-3 tablespoon of filling in the center of the circle and then bring the ends together.
Dust and roll gently to make a 6-inch paratha. Heat a griddle. Transfer the paratha on the hot griddle. Cook until brown spots appear on both sides. Apple oil and cook until nicely browned. Serve hot with raita and pickle.
Loved this recipe?Click here to leave a review and give us a five star rating ★★★★★
Palak Paneer Paratha Recipe
Here is How to make Palak Paneer Paratha, an Indian flat bread which is as delicious as Palak Paneer Sabzi and is super easy to make as well.
4.75 from 4 votes
Print Pin Rate
Course: Bread
Cuisine: Indian
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 30 minutes
Total Time: 40 minutes
Servings: 4 people
Calories: 361kcal
Author: Neha Mathur
Ingredients 
1x2x3x
For the dough
2 cups Whole Wheat Flour
1 and ½ cup Spinach
1-2 Green Chilli
1 teaspoon Salt
For the filling
200 g Paneer
Salt to taste
¼ cup Onion (Finely Chopped)
1 teaspoon Ginger (Grated)
1 teaspoon Green Chilli (Chopped)
2 tablespoon Fresh Coriander (Chopped)
1 teaspoon Dry Mango Powder
½ teaspoon Roasted Cumin Powder
Oil for frying
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
Add spinach and green chilli in a blender and blend to make a smooth paste.
Use little water if required.
Mix this paste with whole wheat flour and salt.
Add water and knead to make a soft dough.
Cover the dough and keep aside.
Mix all the ingredients for making the filling in a bowl.
Divide the dough into large lemon sized balls.
Dust and roll the dough ball to make a 4 inch circle.
Keep 2-3 tablespoon of filling in the centre of the circle and then bring the ends together.
Dust and roll gently to make a 6 inch paratha.
Heat a griddle.
Transfer the paratha on the hot griddle.
Cook until brown spots appear on both the sides.
Apple oil and cook until nicely browned.
Serve hot with raita and pickle.
Notes
Instead of making a spinach puree to add in the flour, you can also finely chop the spinach and add it in the flour and then knead it.
Nutrition
Calories: 361kcal | Carbohydrates: 47g | Protein: 15g | Fat: 14g | Saturated Fat: 7g | Cholesterol: 33mg | Sodium: 641mg | Potassium: 232mg | Fiber: 7g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 15IU | Vitamin C: 2.4mg | Calcium: 260mg | Iron: 2.3mg
Pin this recipe for later use!I LOVE to see your creations so pin and mention @WhiskAffair!
Sign up for regular updates?I would love to have you as part of my journey. Click to sign up!
Best Mutabal (Middle Eastern Eggplant Dip)
Chicken Hakka Noodles »
Reader Interactions
Did you make this recipe? Let me know! Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Sign me up for the newsletter!
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Hey! Nice to meet you
Hi! I'm Neha, Blogger & Recipe Expert behind Whisk Affair. I've nurtured Whisk Affair since 2012 by trying & testing every recipe published. Be sure that it will turn out good each time! Read More about me…
Stay Connected
Fall Recipes
Butternut Squash Sweet Potato Soup
Oven Roasted Sweet Potato Wedges
Thai Sweet Potato Curry
Pumpkin Chia Seed Pudding
Pumpkin Spice Chai Tea
Pumpkin Spice Hot Chocolate
Diwali Recipes
Double Ka Meetha
Shankarpali
Shakkarpara
Balushahi
Kalakand Wontons
Tater Tots Chaat
Most Popular Recipes
How to make Sour Cream
Lemon Garlic Baked Tilapia
Dal Tadka
Scrambled Egg Whites
Rajma Masala
Creamy Garlic Parmesan Sauce
Footer
back to top
About
About Neha
Stay Connected
Sign up! for emails and updates
Contact Me
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility Policy
Copyright © 2020 WhiskAffair Food LLP
