https://www.livveganstrong.com/vegan-potato-caramelized-onion-galette/
Skip to content
Menu
Liv Vegan Strong
Vegan Recipes for Everyone
Youtube
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Home
Recipes
Recipe Videos
YouTube Channel
Meet Liv
Contact
Main Course
V
Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette
by LivMarch 3, 2022March 3, 2022
Search for: Search
By Category
All Recipes (190) 
Appetizers (39) 
Bread (13) 
Breakfast (38) 
Desserts (32) 
Drinks (16) 
Fall Recipes (38) 
Lunch (54) 
Main Course (121) 
Most Popular (18) 
Pasta (14) 
Quick & Easy (42) 
Salads (4) 
Sandwiches (17) 
Sauce & Dips (5) 
Seasonal Recipes (27) 
Side Dishes (1) 
Soups (14) 
Summer Recipes (25) 
Tacos (12) 
Tofu (13) 
Valentine's Day (1) 
Browse the Blog
Home
Recipes
Recipe Videos
YouTube Channel
Meet Liv
Contact
Instagram
Twitter
Pinterest
YouTube
Jump to Recipe
This recipe was originally posted Dec 15, 2019 and was updated on March 1, 2022. Simple changes have been made to make this galette recipe better than before. More instructions were added to ensure you create the best product possible. The only changes to the actual recipe was that the caramelized onions have been doubled._
This Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette makes me so happy. The smell of this galette coming out of the oven is heaven. The crust is incredibly flaky and buttery then filled with layers of potatoes, caramelized onions, the creamiest coconut and tofu sauce and fresh thyme to finish it off. It’s absolutely amazing and surprisingly easy to make. 
The dough comes together with minimal ingredients and then is placed in the fridge to chill while the potatoes are baked in the oven until soft and the onions get all nice and caramelized. The dough is rolled out and then filling with multiple layers of sauce, potato, and caramelized onion. This beauty of this recipe is that it’s supposed to look rustic but I think it’s beautiful that way. I truly can’t recommend this recipe enough! You gotta try it for yourself.
What You Will Need For This Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette
Kitchen Essentials:
The sauce requires a blender or food processor but it doesn’t need to a high speed blender because the sauce is made from all soft ingredients. Other than that, nothing fancy needed here! The potatoes aren’t cut paper thin so a mandoline isn’t necessary for this recipe, just a sharp knife will do.
Main Ingredients:
All Purpose Flour
Cold Vegan Butter
Potatoes
Canned Coconut Milk
Silken Tofu
Caramelized Onions
Substitutions:
I don’t recommend substituting anything in this recipe. I tested it multiple times and this yielded the best results. The coconut and tofu sauce is very balanced and the coconut flavor hardly comes through and is definitely not overwhelming. I tried this out with cashew and along with the caramelized onions it was way too sweet. 
How To Make The Best Galette Every Time
Be sure the vegan butter and the water for the galette dough is cold. You want this dough to be flaky and buttery and that will only be achieved if the ingredients are added and mixed cold. 
Alternate between layers and use all the sauce! Start with sauce and continue with layers of potatoes, caramelized onions and more sauce until all the ingredients are used up. Seems like a lot of sauce but it’s needed. It creates the most flavorful potatoes and brings this dish together. You’ll see what I mean once the galette is out of the oven and cut.
Don’t focus on making it look perfect. Galettes are supposed to be rustic. _That’s what makes them beautiful!_
FAQ:
Is Galette Dough the same as a Pie Crust dough? 
Pie crust dough and galette dough are very similar but not interchangeable.
Does all the sauce make this galette soggy?
A lot of that sauce is thickened and coats the potatoes to create the most delicious buttery soft potatoes. The potatoes are pre-cooked prior to going in the galette but the sauce continues to cook them and they get very flavorful. When you cut in to the galette you’ll see what I mean. It’s not a gooey mess at all! 
How do I fold a galette? 
Simply pull the edges and fold them over the filling. The crust should overlap and not be perfect. It’s supposed to be rustic.
Can the dough be prepared ahead of time?
Yes, simply wrap the dough in cling wrap and store in the fridge. 
More Recipes You Might Like:
Garlic Knots
Vegan Bacon, Potato, & Caramelized Onion Flatbread
Vegan Garlic Parmesan & Herb Star Bread
If You Make This Recipe:
Tag me on Instagram! I’d love to see your delicious re-creations and feature them! As always, I would greatly appreciate if you share your review in the comments below. Don’t forget to add if you made any fun substitutions. Thank you!
Print
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette
Author: Liv
Prep Time: 30m
Cook Time: 1hr 30m
Total Time: 2hr
Yield: 6–8 Slices 1x
Category: Main Course
Method: Oven Baked
Cuisine: American
Diet: Vegan
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
This Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette makes me so happy. The smell of this galette coming out of the oven is absolutely heavenly. This galette crust is the incredibly flaky and buttery then filled with layers of potatoes, caramelized onions, the creamiest coconut and tofu sauce and fresh thyme to finish it off. It’s absolutely amazing and surprisingly easy to make. 
Ingredients
Units USM Scale 1x2x3x
Galette Dough:
1 3/4 cup All Purpose Flour
1 tablespoon Organic Sugar
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1/2 cup Cold Vegan Butter, _I recommend Earth Balance_
10–12 tablespoons of Ice Cold Water
Plant Milk, _for brushing on top_
2 tablespoons Fresh Thyme
Roasted Potatoes:
1.5 lbs of Gold Potatoes, about 5-6
1 tablespoon Olive Oil
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1/2 teaspoon Black Pepper
Caramelized Onions:
2 medium Yellow Onions, _thinly sliced_
1–2 tablespoons Olive Oil
1 1/2 teaspoon Organic Cane Sugar or Agave
3/4 teaspoon Salt
3 Garlic Cloves
Coconut Tofu Cream Sauce:
Half a block of Silken or Soft Tofu
1/2 cup _Canned_ Coconut Milk
2 teaspoons Miso Paste
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1/2 teaspoon Onion Powder
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper
1/2 teaspoon Red Pepper Flakes 
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 375F.
2. Potatoes: Slice the gold potatoes in rounds. No need to make them paper thin. Toss them in a large bowl with the olive oil. Sprinkle in the salt and pepper. Toss until coated evenly. Place the potato rounds on a parchment lined baking sheet being sure not to overlap them. Bake the potatoes until cooked through, about 30 minutes. Once done, set aside.
3. Pastry Dough: whisking together the all purpose flour, salt, and sugar. Add the vegan butter and cut it with 2 knives or a pastry cutter until crumbly. The butter pieces should be about pea-sized. Add the ice cold water little by little until the dough comes together. You may not need all 12 tablespoons. Once the dough comes together, wrap it in plastic wrap or a sheet of parchment and place in the fridge for 30 minutes.
4. Caramelized Onions: Start by thinly slicing the onions and mince the garlic. Heat a large pan on medium heat with the oil. Add the onions, salt, and sugar. Mix together. 
5. Let onions cook for 25-30 minutes or until golden in color and caramelized. Stir occasionally and add a few tablespoons of water if onions start to dry out. Lower heat if needed. Add the garlic and cook for another 2-3 minutes. Turn off heat and set aside. 
6. Coconut & Tofu Cream Sauce: combine all the ingredients in to a food processor or blender. Blend until smooth. Set aside. 
7. Lightly floured a piece of parchment paper. Roll out dough until it’s about 1/4in thick. It’s not going to a perfect circle but that’s okay because you want the edges to be rustic.
8. Once rolled out, start with a thin layer of sauce in the middle of the dough leaving roughly 2 inches clean around the edge. Alternate layers of roasted potatoes, caramelized onions, cream sauce, and fresh thyme until you run out of ingredients. Start with the sauce and end with the sauce, use all of it!
9. Fold the dough up and over the edge of the filling, overlapping the dough as you go around. Brush the rim with non-dairy milk and more fresh thyme. 
10. Bake for 45 minutes or until golden brown on top and bottom. I like to broil it for 4-5 minutes after the baking time to finish it off. Top with thyme and enjoy!
Notes
Reheat leftovers in the oven until warm.
Keywords: Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette, Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette, Galette_
Did you make this recipe?
Share a photo and tag me @livveganstrong — I can’t wait to see what you’ve made!
CategoriesAll Recipes Appetizers Breakfast Fall Recipes Most Popular
Tags
galetteonion galettepotato galettevegan galette
Share this:
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Made this Recipe? Tag Us!
Instagram
Twitter
Pinterest
YouTube
Post navigation
Previous articleVegan Lasagna Soup w/ Tofu Crumbles & Ricotta
5 comments 
1. Pingback:Butternut Squash & Chickpea Cashew Curry -
Amelia says:
May 17, 2021 at 1:04 pm 
Truly a masterpiece! Thank you so much, and well done <3
Reply
Liv says:
May 20, 2021 at 11:46 am 
Thank you! 🙂
Reply
Ann Bonner says:
April 4, 2021 at 8:35 am 
Lovely recipe I used Alpro coconut yoghurt as I forgot to get the coconut cream. I had roast veggies with it.
Reply
Liv says:
April 4, 2021 at 9:51 am 
Thank you for sharing! Good to know coconut yogurt works well in this recipe 🙂
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe rating _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Post Comment
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Related Posts
Vegan Lasagna Soup w/ Tofu Crumbles & Ricotta
Smoky Cauliflower Tacos w/ Jalapeño Cilantro Sauce
Vegan Cinnamon Crumble Banana Bread
Back to Top
Home
Recipes
Recipe Videos
YouTube Channel
Meet Liv
Contact
Youtube
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
2022 Liv Vegan Strong. Made with love by _Pixelgrade_.
Menu
Reading: Vegan Potato & Caramelized Onion Galette
Share:
Share this:
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Search
Search for: Search
Begin typing your search above and press return to search. Press Esc to cancel.
Close overlay search
Menu
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email Name Website
