Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 375F.
2. Potatoes: Slice the gold potatoes in rounds. No need to make them paper thin. Toss them in a large bowl with the olive oil. Sprinkle in the salt and pepper. Toss until coated evenly. Place the potato rounds on a parchment lined baking sheet being sure not to overlap them. Bake the potatoes until cooked through, about 30 minutes. Once done, set aside.
3. Pastry Dough: whisking together the all purpose flour, salt, and sugar. Add the vegan butter and cut it with 2 knives or a pastry cutter until crumbly. The butter pieces should be about pea-sized. Add the ice cold water little by little until the dough comes together. You may not need all 12 tablespoons. Once the dough comes together, wrap it in plastic wrap or a sheet of parchment and place in the fridge for 30 minutes.
4. Caramelized Onions: Start by thinly slicing the onions and mince the garlic. Heat a large pan on medium heat with the oil. Add the onions, salt, and sugar. Mix together. 
5. Let onions cook for 25-30 minutes or until golden in color and caramelized. Stir occasionally and add a few tablespoons of water if onions start to dry out. Lower heat if needed. Add the garlic and cook for another 2-3 minutes. Turn off heat and set aside. 
6. Coconut & Tofu Cream Sauce: combine all the ingredients in to a food processor or blender. Blend until smooth. Set aside. 
7. Lightly floured a piece of parchment paper. Roll out dough until it’s about 1/4in thick. It’s not going to a perfect circle but that’s okay because you want the edges to be rustic.
8. Once rolled out, start with a thin layer of sauce in the middle of the dough leaving roughly 2 inches clean around the edge. Alternate layers of roasted potatoes, caramelized onions, cream sauce, and fresh thyme until you run out of ingredients. Start with the sauce and end with the sauce, use all of it!
9. Fold the dough up and over the edge of the filling, overlapping the dough as you go around. Brush the rim with non-dairy milk and more fresh thyme. 
10. Bake for 45 minutes or until golden brown on top and bottom. I like to broil it for 4-5 minutes after the baking time to finish it off. Top with thyme and enjoy!