https://www.baked-theblog.com/mini-vegan-spinach-pies/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Recipe Index
About Us
Work With Us
Nav Social Menu
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
search...
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
search...
Recipe Index
About Us
Work With Us
Home » Savoury
Mini Vegan Spinach Pies
This post may contain affiliate links. Thank you for supporting Baked!
Jump to Recipe
Easy mini spinach pies, made with vegan tofu feta and filo dough for a simple appetizer that works for almost everyone.
Spinach Pies – an easy vegan appetizer
Filo (aka phyllo) dough is already vegan, made with just flour, water, and a little oil and usually vinegar. It’s also easy to find and use, exactly what’s needed when you’re looking for a last minute snack or appetizer for parties.
Filled with spinach and plenty of other delicious-ness, they’re a real crowd pleaser, and extra good with a side of (vegan) tzatziki or another dipping sauce you love. 
What’s in these pies?
We’ve gone for a simple Greek inspiration, with tofu feta cheese, spinach, and dill. Using frozen spinach makes things even easier and budget friendly, just thawed and with any extra water squeezed out before mixing. 
There’s also some leek, green onion, rosemary, and sesame. Plenty of flavour and texture to go around!
If you’re not vegan, you can definitely use sheep feta in place of the tofu, and it’ll cut your prep time down even further. Or try a bit of crumbled goat cheese or a store-bought vegan feta or other crumbly cheese. These are super quick and easy, but look gorgeous, just what’s needed for feeding a group.
We haven’t seen gluten-free filo pastry to buy, but there are several recipes online if you want to try making your own! Unfortunately none of us have tried them yet so we can’t recommend one in particular.
How do I make them?
First things first, get going with that tofu feta if you want to use it. The feta needs to marinate for a few hours, or overnight, so it should be made ahead. Once you’re ready to go, thaw the spinach out in the refrigerator or microwave.
Once the spinach is ready to go, most of the ingredients are sauteed in a frying pan for extra layers of flavour – key in plant based recipes! – and to evaporate any more water lingering in the spinach. Bonus, the filling can either be made ahead or used immediately.
The spinach mixture is delicious on its own, but especially good folded into filo triangles – and it’s easier than you think! Brush the filo with olive oil and cut into strips, add the filling, and fold several times to create a cute little packet. Take a look at the recipe video to see how it’s done.
Looking for more great appetizer ideas? Try these!
Fig, Rosemary, and Pistachio Crisps 
Eggplant Red Pepper Dip 
Spelt Rosemary Focaccia 
Sweet Potato Hummus 
Olive Stuffed Mushrooms 
No-knead Garlic Fougasse 
Green Gazpacho
If you make these, let us know by tagging @baked_theblog + bakedtheblogon Instagram! We love to feel like we’re in the kitchen with you._
Continue to Content
Yield: Makes 12
Mini Vegan Spinach Pies
Print 
Easy mini spinach pies, made with vegan tofu feta and filo dough for a simple appetizer that works for almost everyone.
Prep Time 30 minutes
Cook Time 25 minutes
Total Time 55 minutes
Ingredients
500 grams / 18 oz. frozen spinach, thawed and squeezed dry 
1 cup leek, chopped 
¼ cup green onion, chopped 
¼ cup dill, chopped 
2 tablespoons fresh rosemary, chopped 
3-4 garlic cloves, minced 
½ teaspoon sea salt, more to taste 
Pepper to taste 
9 sheets phyllo dough, thawed 
¼ cup + 1 tablespoon olive oil 
2 tablespoons sesame seeds 
½ a batch tofu feta, crumbled (see below) 
Tofu Feta
400 grams / 14 oz. extra-firm tofu, cubed 
¼ cup apple cider vinegar 
½ teaspoon sea salt 
Pinch pinch oregano (dried or fresh) 
Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 190C / 375F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. Heat the 1 tablespoon olive oil in a frying pan on medium low heat. Add the leeks and saute for 5 minutes or until they begin to soften. Add the garlic and green onions and cook for another few minutes until they too soften.
3. Next add the thawed spinach, dill, rosemary, salt and pepper. If you're using the vegan feta, now is the time to add it. 
4. Continue to cook this mixture for a few minutes to allow any residual moisture to evaporate. Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary.
5. At this point the filling can be set aside or used right away. To make the triangles take one sheet of filo and brush it lightly with some olive oil. Lay another layer of dough on top and bush it lightly with olive oil. Finally add a the last layer of filo, and brush it lightly with oil (this makes three layers total).
6. Take the three layered piece of filo and cut it into 4 strips along the long edge. Working quickly (so the filo doesn't dry out too much) add around 3 tablespoons of spinach filling to one strip and begin to fold up like a triangle. If you're having trouble with the folding see the video above.
7. Continue in this manner until all the filling is used. Once you have around 12 triangles, brush them one more time with a little olive oil and sprinkle with sesame seeds. 
8. Bake for 25-30 minutes or until golden and crisp. Serve warm.
Tofu Feta
1. Combine all of the ingredients in a large bowl. Cover and refrigerate to marinate, at least four hours, preferably overnight. 
Nutrition Information:
Yield:
12
Serving Size:
1 
Amount Per Serving:_ Calories: 123Total Fat: 5gSaturated Fat: 1gUnsaturated Fat: 3gCholesterol: 2mgSodium: 264mgCarbohydrates: 15gFiber: 3gSugar: 1gProtein: 6g
This is an approximation of the nutrition offered in this recipe, and is created using a nutrition calculator._
Sophie Mackenzie
Cuisine: American / Category: Savoury
This post was originally published in October 2017. It has been updated with improvements to the text and recipe, and to include a video._
23 Make Ahead Winter Breakfasts
Mixed Berry Muffins With Toasted Coconut (gluten-free) »
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. Kelly Brisson // the gouda life says
October 12, 2017 at 7:50 am
These are so beautiful, Sophie! I need’em.
Reply
Sophie Mackenzie says
October 12, 2017 at 11:35 am
Thank you ever so much, Kelly! <3
Reply
2. Sarah | Well and Full says
October 12, 2017 at 1:10 pm
These look so good…. I’ve never worked with phyllo dough but I feel very inspired to try. It can’t be worse than rice paper rolls haha! ;)
Reply
3. Sophie Mackenzie says
October 12, 2017 at 1:47 pm
ha ha, not at all! And if worse comes to worse, the filling is awesome in lasagne ;)
Reply
4. Sophie | The Green Life says
October 12, 2017 at 3:31 pm
Gorgeous recipe and photos, Sophie! I’m 100% making these this holiday season. <3
Reply
Sophie Mackenzie says
October 12, 2017 at 11:59 pm
Yeah, that fills me with joy! Thanks, Soph <3
Reply
5. Kris says
October 12, 2017 at 7:22 pm
What a beautiful post, Sophie! That light!! i definitely want to make this, but am also super intrigued about your lasagna comment. :)
Reply
Sophie Mackenzie says
October 13, 2017 at 1:46 pm
Thank you so much, Kris! OMG, it’s the best layer in a lasagne ;)
Reply
6. Ailim says
May 17, 2019 at 7:21 pm
Can this be made the night before for a party? Thanks.
Reply
Kris Osborne says
May 22, 2019 at 11:28 am
Hi Ailim, I’m so sorry about the delay. Sophie (the author of this post) is unavailable to comment right now, but I thought I could share some insight. My best guess is to form the triangles ahead of time, but don’t bake them. Arrange them in a single layer and seal tightly in a container. You can also freeze them this way, as well. I would bake the frozen (do not thaw) pastries as above. They make take a few minutes longer. I hope this helps! Again, we’re really sorry to delay our response on this for you.
Reply
7. Gail says
December 02, 2019 at 3:23 pm
Hi Sophie, I clicked the link for how to fold the triangles and the link sent me to an image logo for alldomains.com. Any chance you can check the link so I can see how to fold the phyllo? Thanks so much!
Reply
Sophie Mackenzie says
December 15, 2019 at 12:16 pm
Hi Gail! 
Thanks for spotting that. Here is a diagramme that shows how to do it :) 
https://foodsprint.files.wordpress.com/2014/05/picframe-6.jpg
Reply
8. Emily says
January 03, 2020 at 11:06 am
These look so good! I’m Greek so we have these all the time but I have never seen them with the seeds on top – such a great addition! I will have to try that for my next batch :)
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
Primary Sidebar
ABOUT US
Baked is a collaborative project brought to you by five Canadian women food bloggers. Our mission is to bring accessible baking recipes into your home kitchen with beautiful photography, lots of step-by-step images, and thorough, easy-to-read information. At Baked, there is something for everyone!
Join Our Mailing List
Get our recipes & baking tips direct to your inbox each week! 
Email Address 
Full Name 
Get Baking!
Sourdough Donuts
Classic Sourdough Stuffing
Sourdough Cinnamon Rolls
100% Whole Wheat Sourdough Bagels
Footer
2020 Baked The Blog. This site uses affiliate links.
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use_
Copyright© 2021
Skip to Recipe
