https://vanillaandbean.com/grilled-bbq-tofu-vegetable-kebabs/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Start Here
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Pressed For Time Mains
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Vanilla And Bean
Sweet and Savory Vegetarian
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Subscribe
Shop
About
Subscribe
A little bit about me…
Contact
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
You are here: Home / Main Dish / Tofu / Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
By Traci · Jump to Recipe · 
Saucy, tangy and so flavorful Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegan Kebabs are slathered in homemade BBQ sauce. These vegan kebabs are simple to make and packed with late summer favorites! This recipe is vegetarian, vegan and gluten free. 
Table of Contents
A Weakness for BBQ
How to Make Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
More Vegetarian (and Vegan) BBQ Recipes to Love
Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
A Weakness for BBQ
I have a weakness for BBQ. I’m particularly fond of sturdy veggies that can be grilled and slathered with homemade Smoky Bourbon BBQ Sauce. Whippin’ up a double batch of that sauce and freezing the rest for whenever the mood strikes means it’s almost always stocked in the freezer. 
BBQ sauce is a quintessential summertime staple!
And for good reason. It’s a perfect partner for grilled vegetables and it makes a mean marinade for these vegetarian and vegan BBQ tofu kebabs. 
How to Make Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
Easy to pull together, these grilled vegan kebabs are a perfect solution for vegans and vegetarians to whip out at BBQs with friends and family where meat is generally center of attention. People will be swooning over your delicious tofu kebabs! In summary, here’s how to make these mouthwatering BBQ skewers (see recipe card for details): 
First , press the tofu so that most of the water is drained out. Then, bake the tofu at high heat. This dries the tofu out further, improving it’s ability to soak up the BBQ sauce and improve its texture. 
Second , marinate the tofu in homemade smoky BBQ sauce.
Meanwhile , chop the vegetables into bite size pieces. Toss them in a bit of olive oil, salt and pepper, then skewer the veggies and BBQ Tofu. 
Next , grill these vegan kebabs while slathering with BBQ sauce for about 15 minutes or until charred on all sides, the veggies are tender crisp and those plump cherry tomatoes burst.
Last , dig in! 
Make Ahead!! The tofu can be marinated up to 24 hours in advance and the kebabs can be assembled several hours prior to grilling. 
A Few Recipe Notes
Bamboo or metal skewers? I like bamboo and can get about two uses out of each skewer (they compost easily). The veggies adhere to the skewer better than with metal where they tend to slip easier. If using bamboo , be sure to soak the skewers in water before slipping the veggies and tofu on the skewer. 
These vegan kebabs can be prepared and assembled ahead and rested in the refrigerator several hours prior to grilling. The marinated BBQ tofu can be prepared a day ahead of when needed.
For tender crisp grilled vegetables, go for about 15 minutes on the grill. If you prefer them a little more cooked, lean towards 18-20 minutes. Taste as you go find your grilled vegetable sweet spot! 
I use my homemade Smoky BBQ Sauce in this recipe, but your favorite sauce will work beautifully too! 
I love to share these vegan BBQ skewers with a stuffed baked potato. Potato salad and grilled corn on the cob make a fabulous accompaniment as well. 
More Vegetarian (and Vegan) BBQ Recipes to Love
Grilled BBQ Cauliflower Ranch Bowls
BBQ Collard Rolls
BBQ Chickpea Veggie Burgers
Pulled Portobello BBQ Sandwiches
Homemade BBQ Baked Beans
Print Recipe
the recipe
Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs
Prep Time:25 minutes
Cook Time:20 minutes
Total Time:45 minutes
Servings:15 \- 16 Kebabs
Calories:69kcal
Author:Traci York | Vanilla And Bean
Saucy, tangy and so flavorful Grilled BBQ Tofu Vegetable Kebabs are slathered in homemade BBQ sauce. They're simple to make and packed with late summer favorites! Marinade the tofu in advance to make these kebabs a snap to pull together. This recipe is vegetarian, vegan and easily gluten free. 
Plan on 3 kebabs each for adults (my hubs likes 4). 
Ingredients
For the Tofu:
14 oz (395g) Firm Tofu I like Wildwood, not extra firm - it makes a difference.
1/2 C (105g) Smoky Bourbon BBQ Sauce
For the Vegetables:
1 Pint (435g) Cherry Tomatoes
8oz (250g) Zucchini about one large
6oz (170g) Crimini Mushrooms
1/2 (155g) Red Bell Pepper large
1/2 (155g) Green Bell Pepper large
1/2 (175g) Purple Onion large
2 Tbs Olive Oil
1/2 tsp Fine Sea Salt
Fresh Ground Pepper
Instructions
For the Tofu (prep ahead if desired):
Since tofu is packaged in water, we need press the water out of it to make room for flavor. To press tofu, use a tea towel and place it under and on top of the tofu. Set it on a plate. Place something heavy on top, like a cutting board, another plate or a not-so-full box of wine to press the water out. We don't want it too heavy or it will squash the tofu. Move the tea towel a few times to a dryer area of the towel so it can absorb more water. Press for about 20-30 minutes, up to an hour if you have time.
Preheat the oven to 425F (218C). Line a sheet pan with silpat or parchment paper. Cut the tofu into 1/2" (1.27cm) cubes - 32 pieces. Arrange the tofu on the sheet pan in one layer. Bake for 20-22 minutes. The tofu should be slightly golden yet still soft. 
Transfer the warm tofu to a medium mixing bowl and pour the BBQ sauce over it then give it a good stir. Cover and let marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to eight hours. Set aside. 
For the Vegetables:
If using bamboo skewers, soak them in water while you prepare the veggies. Cut the veggies into bite size pieces and place in a large mixing bowl. Drizzle the olive oil over the veggies then season with salt and pepper. Toss the veggies together so that they're coated in oil. 
Preheat the grill to between 400-450F (204-232C). Skewer the veggies and tofu while reserving the leftover BBQ sauce. Place the kebabs on the grill and grill for about 15-20 minutes total (15 = more tender crisp / 20 = softer, throughly cooked), slathering with more BBQ sauce and making 1/4 turns every four to five minutes so that the veggies and tofu are equally cooked on all sides. Charring is good! 
Serve as soon as they come off they grill. They tend to cool quickly. If needed, keep the kebabs warm for a few minutes after fully cooked still on the grill but with the grill turned off. 
For leftovers, store in the refrigerator for up to three days in a covered container. This recipe does not freeze well. 
Nutrition is provided as a courtesy and is an estimate. If this information is important to you, please have it verified independently. 
Calories: 69kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Protein: 3g | Fat: 3g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 182mg | Potassium: 202mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 5g | Vitamin A: 345IU | Vitamin C: 18.5mg | Calcium: 45mg | Iron: 0.7mg
Made It? Leave a comment below! The most helpful comment may include recipe rating, feedback, any modifications and/or helping other commenters. On Instagram? Take a snap of your make and share, tagging @VanillaAndBean VanillaAndBean! 
You might also like:
Thai Red Curry with Eggplant and Sweet Peppers
BBQ Black Eyed Pea Collard Rolls
Spicy Peanut Tofu Bowl with Coconut Forbidden Rice
Roasted Red Pepper and Tomato Soup
Shares3.5kPinShareYummly
Join over 6000 Subscribers in the Vanilla And Bean community to receive free weekly vegetarian, vegan and sweets recipe inspiration delivered right to your inbox!
You have my permission to email me.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review the Vanilla And Bean privacy policy.
Previous Post: « Homemade Espresso Brownies – gluten free + vegan
Next Post: Homemade Enchilada Sauce »
Load Comments
Primary Sidebar
well hello!
I’m Traci and this is my blog. So Glad You Stopped By!
Here you’ll find full of flavor vegetarian comfort food with vegan and gluten free recipes too. I also share sourdough, sweets and naturally sweetened baked goods and desserts recipes because we all gotta have a little balance!
Learn More About Traci or The Blog.
sign up!
Join over 6,000 Vanilla And Bean subscribers and get vegetarian recipes delivered to your inbox!
Click Here to Subscribe
start here!
Why vegetarian, what you’ll find on Vanilla And Bean and fan favorites all right here!
Click Here to Start
Footer
Affiliate Info
Vanilla And Bean is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. This means that if you click on a link and/or purchase an item after clicking on a link, Vanilla And Bean may receive a percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use through my affiliate links. To learn more please see my Affiliate Policy. Thank you for your support!
Vanilla And Bean, LLC – 2021. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of any content or images without express and written permission from this blog’s owner is prohibited. Licensing inquiries for publication, general distribution, and/or commercial use, please contact me on my contact page.
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean · Website by Meyne
Menu
Home · Recipes · Contact · Privacy Policy 
Terms of Use · Accessibility · California Privacy Notice
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean On Genesis Framework · Log in
Get On The List! 
Get On The List! 
Subscribe to the Vanilla And Bean email list to get vegetarian sweets and savory recipe inspiration delivered to your inbox!
Check to confirm we can send you emails.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review our Privacy Policy.
Vanilla And Bean and our partners use cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. By using the Site, you consent to the use of cookies. Learn More
COOKIE SETTINGS ACCEPT
Cookie Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. 
Necessary 
Necessary 
Always Enabled 
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
cfduid| 1| 4 weeks| The cookie is set by CloudFare. The cookie is used to identify individual clients behind a shared IP address d apply security settings on a per-client basis. It doesnot correspond to any user ID in the web application and does not store any personally identifiable information. 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-non-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Non Necessary". 
OptanonConsent| 0| 1 year| Tracks users cookie consent preferences 
viewed_cookie_policy| 0| 11 months| The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. 
Advertisement 
advertisement
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
IDE| 1| 2 years| Used by Google DoubleClick and stores information about how the user uses the website and any other advertisement before visiting the website. This is used to present users with ads that are relevant to them according to the user profile. 
VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE| 1| 5 months| This cookie is set by Youtube. Used to track the information of the embedded YouTube videos on a website. 
Analytics 
analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
ga| 0| 2 years| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to calculate visitor, session, camapign data and keep track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookies store information anonymously and assigns a randoly generated number to identify unique visitors. 
gid| 0| 1 day| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the wbsite is doing. The data collected including the number visitors, the source where they have come from, and the pages viisted in an anonymous form. 
ad-id| 1| 6 months| Provided by amazon-adsystem.com for tracking user actions on other websites to provide targeted content 
GPS| 0| 30 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube and registers a unique ID for tracking users based on their geographical location 
Performance 
performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
gat| 0| 1 minute| This cookies is installed by Google Universal Analytics to throttle the request rate to limit the colllection of data on high traffic sites. 
YSC| 1| | This cookies is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos. 
YTC| persistent| 10 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube to manage the embed and viewing of videos 
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Sign Up For Weekly Newsletter!
Start Here
Home
Shop
About
Contact
A little bit about me…
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
