https://platedcravings.com/apple-strudel-recipe/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
German Food
About
Contact
How to Subscribe
Nav Social Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
search...
menu icon
search icon
search...
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
Contact
About
Subscribe
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Home > Cakes & Cupcakes > Apple Strudel Recipe
Apple Strudel Recipe
Jump to Recipe · By: Julia Foerster · Posted: 12/05/17 · Updated: 12/18/17
Apple Strudel is much easier to make from scratch than you think! With its flaky crust and a spiced apple filling, this traditional Apfelstrudel recipe is sure to wow your guests. Serve it with vanilla ice cream or vanilla sauce and you have the most delicious fall and winter dessert that everyone will love!
This traditional Apple Strudel Recipe is made with a simple dough that bakes up into a flaky, buttery crust and a juicy, spiced apple filling studded with rum-soaked raisins and finely chopped almonds. An impressive dessert that’s perfect for special occasions and the holiday season!
I love to serve this Apfelstrudel warm topped with vanilla ice cream or homemade vanilla sauce. It’s one of my favorite desserts during fall and winter!
Making the dough from scratch might be intimidating but it’s actually easier than it seems. I went through a few fails to make this recipe as foolproof as possible for you and I’ll share all my tips and tricks to make a traditional German Apple Strudel at home that tastes like the one you’ve tried on vacation!
Where does apple strudel come from
Did you know that Apple Strudel is not really a German pastry? It originated in Austria and is popular in many countries in Europe that once belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Germany wasn’t part of this empire but many popular Austrian dishes like Kaiserschmarrn or Apfelstrudel are also part of the Bavarian cuisine because of the proximity to Austria.
What type of pastry is used for strudel?
Traditional Viennese Apple Strudel is made with strudel dough. A soft dough made with only a handful of ingredients that’s hand-stretched into a paper-thin sheet the size of a tabletop. But many are afraid of making a strudel dough, so recipes these days often cheat by using sheets of purchased phyllo dough or puff pastry.
I think if you want to make traditional Apple strudel you should give the strudel dough a try! It really is easier than you think and by not aiming for a paper-thin dough you will be rewarded with a delicious strudel that is easier to make than the Austrian Grandmother version but not less delicious.
How to make Apple Strudel from scratch
Start with making the dough. This dough recipe is pretty straightforward. Melted butter, flour, lukewarm water, and a little bit of salt are combined until a smooth dough forms. I use my Kitchen Aid for making the dough and it does the job in less than a minute.
Now comes a step that will make stretching the dough so much easier. Let the dough rest in a hot small pot covered with a lid. This makes the dough elastic and easier to handle.
While the dough is resting make the apple filling. You want it to be ready before you start rolling out and stretching the dough because if the dough gets dry it will tear and you might end up with a huge mess. While testing this recipe I nearly had a breakdown because my strudel ripped open in the oven and the apple filling spilled out.
So my tips to prevent that from happening are:
1. Don’t be over ambitious! Yes, Austrian grandmothers can stretch the dough only with their hands paper-thin in less than a minute but none of us is an Austrian Granny. You want to see the pattern of your dish towel through the dough but that’s enough in my opinion. You will get better and faster at this with time but please don’t aim for A+ the first time!
2. Use a smooth dish towel! I tried it once with a rough towel and the dough stuck to it.
3. Have the apple filling prepared in advance! You don’t want the stretched out dough laying around too long or it will get dry.
4. Remove all your jewelry and push up your sleeves! Rings, bracelets or even your sleeves could ruin your dough.
If you follow these tips making the dough is really not that hard!
For the apple filling, I prefer to cut the apples into small stripes (batonnets). Some people also like to cut the apples into small slices. Then combine the apple and the other ingredients.
Rum-soaked raisins are essential for making a good apple strudel. Just combine rum and raisins (I like to use golden raisins) and let them sit for about 30 minutes. Then discard (or drink) the rum and add the raisins to the filling. If you can’t use rum you can soak them in lukewarm water or apple juice.
The nuts in the filling are optional. I really like them in the filling but only if they are finely chopped. If you find finely chopped blanched almonds at the store use these or finely chop store-bought slivered almonds.
There are different ways to spread the apples over the dough. I find the easiest and most foolproof way is to make one stripe of filling, about 6-inches thick. You want to roll up the dough from the short end so with the long side facing you, leave a few inches space on the right side of the rectangle then sprinkle the breadcrumbs top to bottom over the dough in a 6-inch thick line. Leave a 2-inch margin at the top and bottom of the strip.
Pile the apple filling on top of the breadcrumbs. To avoid adding too much liquid use a slotted spoon to transfer the filling onto the dough. Make a uniform pile and then fold the dough at the top and bottom over onto the filling then roll up the strudel from the short side with the help of the towel. Be careful and work slowly, it’s similar to making a swiss roll.
Brush the strudel with a little bit of melted butter, then put it in the oven for 50 minutes. While it’s baking brush it with more melted butter every 20 minutes.
Can Apple Strudel be made in advance?
I think it tastes best warm from the oven but it also tastes great at room temperature or reheated in the oven for a few minutes. I wouldn’t recommend to assemble the apple strudel in advance and then bake it on the next day because the apples will soak the dough. You can make the dough in advance and store it covered in the fridge overnight, let it come to room temperature before rolling it out.
You could also freeze the assembled but not baked apple strudel and then bake it a few minutes longer when you want to serve it. But I haven’t tried this method myself, I’ll update this post if I try it.
What to serve with Apple Strudel?
Apfelstrudel is always sprinkled with powdered sugar and most of the time served with vanilla sauce. It tastes also great with whipped cream or a big dollop of vanilla ice cream. I love it with ice cream! Vanilla ice cream with warm strudel = HEAVEN!
Looking for more traditional German/Austrian dessert recipes?
German Apple Cake (Versunkener Apfelkuchen)
German Apple Streusel Sheet Cake
Kaiserschmarrn Recipe (Torn Pancakes)
German Lebkuchen Recipe {Elisenlebkuchen}
Tools used for Making this Austrian Apfelstrudel Recipe
social_warfare buttons=”Pinterest, Facebook”]
Servings: 8
Apple Strudel Recipe
Apple Strudel is much easier to make from scratch than you think and tastes amazing dusted with powdered sugar! Everyone will love this traditional Apfelstrudel that has a flaky crust and is filled with juicy spiced apples.
Prep Time: 45 minutes
Cook Time: 50 minutes
Total Time: 1 hour 35 minutes
Course: Dessert
Cuisine: German
Calories: 377kcal
Author: Julia Foerster
4.9 from 49 votes
Print PIN RECIPE Rate
Ingredients
For the strudel dough:
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted(55g)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, (200g)
1 pinch of salt
1/3 cup water, lukewarm (80ml)
For the apple filling:
1/3 cup golden raisins, 50g
2 Tbsp rum
4 medium apples
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 cup granulated sugar, (100g)
1/4 cup slivered almonds, finely chopped (30g)
1 tsp vanilla extract
To assemble:
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted (90g)
1/4 cup breadcrumbs, (30g)
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment combine melted butter, flour, salt, and lukewarm water. Mix at medium speed about 1 minute until a smooth and elastic dough forms.
In a small saucepan (with a lid) bring water to a boil then remove the pot from the heat, empty the pot and dry it with a dish towel. Line the pot with a sheet of parchment paper, put the dough into the pot and put the lid on. Let sit for 30 minutes at room temperature.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C) and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Meanwhile, in a small bowl combine raisins and rum. Let sit for 30 minutes. Then discard the rum.
Peel, core, and cut the apples into small stripes (batonnets, see image above). Combine apples with lemon juice. Add cinnamon, sugar, raisins, almonds, and vanilla extract. Set aside.
Lay a thin kitchen towel preferably with a pattern flat on the counter. Sprinkle with flour. Roll the dough out as thin as you can. Brush it with a little bit of melted butter.
Then use your hands to carefully stretch it until it is about 18x12 inches (45x30 cm) big and you're able to see the pattern of the dish towel through the dough.
Brush half of the melted butter over the rolled out dough.
The long side should be facing you. On the right side of the rectangle, leave a few inches space, then sprinkle the breadcrumbs top to bottom over the dough in a 6-inch thick line. Leave a 2-inch margin at the top and bottom of the strip.
Pile the apple filling on top of the breadcrumbs. Use a slotted spoon so the liquid stays in the bowl.
Fold the 2-inch margin at the top and bottom of the dough over onto the filling then roll up the strudel from the short side with the help of the towel. Tuck the ends.
Carefully transfer the Strudel to the prepared baking sheet, seam side down. Brush with a little bit of melted butter.
Bake for about 50 minutes in the lower third of the oven, until lightly golden on top. Brush strudel with remaining melted butter every 20 min while in the oven.
Let cool for 10 minutes then sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve warm.
Nutrition Information
Calories: 377kcal
Did you Make this Recipe? Tag me Today!Share it on Instagram and tag @platedcravings or platedcravings!
Coconut Macaroons Recipe
Vanillekipferl (German Vanilla Crescent Cookies) »
Plated Cravings owns the copyright on all images and text and does not allow for its original recipes and pictures to be reproduced anywhere other than at this site unless authorization is given. If you enjoyed the recipe and would like to publish it on your own site, please re-write it in your own words, and link back to my site and recipe page. Read my Disclosure and Privacy Policy. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Free Air Fryer Course
Tips and strategies to get you air frying...fast!
Yes, I want in!
Thanks! Keep an eye on your inbox for updates.
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. Maxi B says
November 24, 2021 at 5:47 pm
How many does it serve? thanks!!
Reply
Julia Foerster says
November 25, 2021 at 2:36 pm
It serves 8 (you can find the servings in the recipe card below the image).
Reply
2. A Bennett says
November 24, 2021 at 2:23 pm
I love this recipe.. truly authentic. A taste of Austria. Pastry is fantastic and pliable. Able to role it skin thin. Made 4 strudel this afternoon for friends and family. Thank you so much for sharing this recipe.
Reply
3. G Bennett says
November 24, 2021 at 2:15 pm
Excellent in every way and very authentic. Love it!
Reply
4. Keith says
November 23, 2021 at 6:52 am
Then discard the rum. ? 
Really!!!
Reply
Julia Foerster says
November 23, 2021 at 10:45 am
You can totally drink it but don’t use it in the strudel it will make it soggy.
Reply
5. Cat G says
November 14, 2021 at 11:21 am
I was very excited to make this recipe as a treat for my German father in law. 
Upon making the pastry I found that the fat and water amounts were not enough for the dough to come together. I needed to add approximately 1 table more melted butter and 2 tablespoons more water. 
After that the dough was a dream to work with. 
A useful tip for working with the dough on the tea towel is dusting the towel with flour. I was successfully able to hand stretch the dough too the point I could see the pattern of the towel. 
The strudel is now in the oven, is picture perfect and smells heavenly. 
I’m going to make a quick vanilla sauce with custard powder to serve with it. 
Thank you so much for your recipe!!
Reply
6. Kathleen says
October 17, 2021 at 7:15 pm
Will you be posting the vanilla sauce recipe? When we were in Austria the strudel was served with it. Delicious!
Reply
7. Taylor says
October 06, 2021 at 6:27 pm
Can this be made a few days ahead of time and stored in fridge/reheated?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
October 07, 2021 at 2:37 pm
Yes, you can make it ahead of time but I would recommend freezing the baked apple strudel. Just let it cool completely, wrap it airtight, and freeze it then let it thaw and put it in the oven at 350 F for about 10-15 min to reheat. Refrigerating it for a few days will make it soggy.
Reply
8. Pilar says
October 06, 2021 at 6:08 pm
Love the strudel! awesome recipe! Thanks for share.
Reply
9. Maya says
October 03, 2021 at 10:40 pm
Amazingly easy and delicious recipe!! I had a little leftover filling with using two large apples, so I just made it into jam.
Reply
10. jaya stanley says
June 07, 2021 at 2:00 am
how could I modify this so it can be made in 40 mins?
Reply
11. Sarah Roberts says
May 12, 2021 at 7:08 pm
I am excited to try this recipe and would love to pair it with the vanilla sauce that you mentioned. Do you have a recipe for that?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
May 13, 2021 at 11:07 am
Hi Sarah, I have a vanilla sauce recipe coming but it is not yet published. I’ll send it to you by email!
Reply
Lisa Noel says
November 22, 2021 at 11:42 pm
Love seeing your traditional Viennese recipes! Just like Oma made! Can you also send me your vanilla sauce recipe please?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
November 23, 2021 at 10:44 am
So happy you like my recipes, Lisa! Just sent you an email!
Reply
Janet McNeil says
November 28, 2021 at 2:17 pm
Would love the vanilla sauce recipe pretty pls . 
Thank you so much !
12. Luisa says
March 14, 2021 at 7:41 pm
Thank you for this wonderful recepie
Reply
13. Jorge says
March 07, 2021 at 5:39 pm
I have a made a French tart with a much simpler procedure and have come out good. Being the first time with this recipe I ended having too much apple filling even I used 4 small apples. The dough rolls better if you make it right on the parchment paper you are going to bake it. Other than that it came out delicious. Thanks Julia!! Canada is cool.
Reply
14. Eden says
March 04, 2021 at 5:19 pm
I was thinking of making this for my family and younger sisters, do you if I could make it without the rum?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
March 05, 2021 at 10:05 am
Yes, you can. If you can’t use rum you can soak the raisins in lukewarm water or apple juice.
Reply
Si🥀 says
March 09, 2021 at 5:37 am
alcohol from rum is evaporated in the oven and only the aroma remains so that it can be used even when cooking for children but if I’m not at home, I don’t think the taste changes a lot, so it’s possible without rum🥰❤️💋
Reply
15. Derek Small says
January 25, 2021 at 12:58 pm
Hi Julia, I’m very much a newbie at this baking game haha, and don’t have the luxury of a stand mixer or the worktop space for one (London kitchen sizes are naff unless you earn a fortune! So going to cheat a little first with some shop-bought dough! The recipe is making my mouth water already but I’m ‘confused.com’ about the rolling up and the six-inch strip, as to which direction the filling is laid out and then rolled. Any chance of a pic with the ingredients on before rolling up and another being rolled? Or am I being thick here?? 
So I’m going to try a good old English apple pie first (just like ‘mum used to make’ -sounds better with Italian ‘Mama’!). Her family owned a cafe/restaurant so she grew up a dab hand at classic English cooking, mains and desserts (or dinner and ‘afters’ as we called them then) But the rum-soaked raisins are going in! And I’m hoping when I get around to the Apfel Strudel that it will conjure up long-forgotten tastes and smells, from Austrian tea rooms in the ski holidays of my youth.
Reply
16. Lorena says
January 25, 2021 at 12:12 pm
Hi, 
What kind of apples do you think is best for this strudel?
Thanks in advance.
Reply
Julia Foerster says
January 25, 2021 at 12:58 pm
You can use any kind of apple but a tart apple with a bit of sweetness works best similar to what you would use for apple pie. Jonagold, Golden Delicious, Granny Smith, Honeycrisp, or a combination of these would work great.
Reply
17. gab says
January 16, 2021 at 10:48 pm
Can I make it and put it in the fridge overnight so it just needs to be baked off in the morning?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
January 17, 2021 at 8:21 am
I haven’t tried that so I’m not sure. I think the apple filling would soak through the dough overnight and then it wouldn’t crisp up when baking the next morning.
Reply
18. Kat says
January 13, 2021 at 2:14 pm
I always get confused with this point – 1/4 of butter then melt or 1/4 cup of melted butter. Please advise.
Reply
Julia Foerster says
January 13, 2021 at 2:31 pm
You measure 1/4 cup of the cold, solid butter and then melt it in a pan or the microwave. Hope this helps!
Reply
19. Liat David says
January 10, 2021 at 6:44 pm
Can I make the dough a day before and roll it out to make the strudel the next day?
Reply
Julia Foerster says
January 11, 2021 at 9:04 am
I haven’t tried it so I can’t say for sure. But I think it would make it more difficult to roll out and stretch the dough.
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Welcome!
Hi, I'm Julia! Born in Germany, I call Canada now my home and love to share my favorite dishes with you! Here you'll find hundreds of recipes, all made from scratch with lots of tips and detailed step-by-step instructions. ➝ Visit my about page and ➝ subscribe to never miss a new recipe! 
Favorite Recipes
Black Forest Cake
Best Brioche French Toast
Butterscotch Cookies
Blueberry Bread
Easy Creme Brulee Recipe
Chocolate Mousse Cake
Top Posts
Moist Lemon Cake Recipe
Air Fryer Donuts
Air Fryer Onion Rings
Apple Strudel Recipe
Air Fryer Chicken Wings
Oven Roasted Potatoes
Footer
back to top
About
Privacy Policy & Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
As Featured On
Contact
Contact
Copyright © 2020 Plated Cravings
noscript=1
