Instructions
preparation
First soak 1 heaped cup rice in water for 30 minutes. Use any regular rice. I used sona masuri rice.
Then pressure cook the rice with 2 cups water, ¼ teaspoon salt for 3 to 4 whistles on a medium flame or for 11 to 12 minutes. You can also cook the rice in a pot. If cooking in a pot, then you may need to add more water.
Soak ½ tablespoon tightly packed tamarind in ¼ cup hot water for 20 to 30 minutes.
Later squeeze the soaked tamarind in the water to get the tamarind pulp. Strain and keep aside.
When the pressure settles down on its own, open the cooker's lid and fluff the rice. 
You can allow the rice to cool in the cooker itself or spread rice on a large plate/thali or tray. Allow the cooked rice grains to become warm or cool down. Cover and keep so that the rice grains do not dry out.
When the rice is cooking, rinse the brinjals. Remove the crowns of the brinjals and slice them vertically in 4 long pieces. As soon as you chop them, place them in a bowl containing water to which some salt has been added. 
Do make sure that there is sufficient water covering the brinjals. Allow them to be in the salted water for 15 to 20 minutes.
making vangi bath
Heat 2 tablespoons peanut oil (can also use sesame oil or sunflower oil) in a pan or kadai.
Add ½ teaspoon mustard seeds.
Once the mustard seeds begin to crackle, then add ½ teaspoon urad dal.
Next add 2 tablespoons roasted peanuts or cashews.
Saute till the urad dal becomes golden.
Then add 1 to 2 dry red chilies, 1 sprig curry leaves or 10 to 12 curry leaves and ⅛ teaspoon asafoetida (about 2 pinches of asafoetida).
Add the brinjals. Just remove the brinjals from the salted water and add in the pan. Be careful as the mixture splutters when adding brinjals.
Mix them with the rest of the tempering mixture.
Add ¼ teaspoon turmeric powder. Also add salt as per taste.
Mix the turmeric powder and salt very well.
Cover the pan with a lid and let the brinjals get half-cooked. Do check at intervals. While cooking, if the brinjals start sticking to the pan then add some water. Then cover and cook.
Half cook the brinjals.
Once they are half done, then add the tamarind pulp.
Then add 2 to 2.5 tablespoons vangi bath masala powder.
Mix very well and continue to cook without the lid. If the masala along with brinjals start sticking to pan, then add ¼ cup water and continue to cook.
Once the brinjals are cooked well, add 2 tablespoons grated coconut and ¼ to ½ teaspoon jaggery powder.
Mix again very well. The brinjal masala is thick. But for some moisture you can have a semi gravy consistency in the brinjal masala.
Keep the pan down and add rice in two to three parts. Mix gently.
Add the next portion of rice and then mix well.
Mix gently but very well so that everything is mixed evenly.
Serve vangi bath with raita, papads or chips.
How to make Maharashtrian Vangi Bath
1\. On a low flame in a small frying pan, dry roast the whole spices till they are aromatic.
2\. Bring the roasted spices to the side of the pan and add the desiccated coconut and sesame seeds.
3\. Stir & continue to dry roast till the coconut becomes golden. Keep stirring regularly so that the coconut does not get burnt. Let this spice and coconut mixture cool.
3\. Soak the rice in water for 30 minutes and then drain them. Keep aside. You can add basmati rice or ambe mohur rice (mango blossom rice) and even sona masuri.
4\. Quarter or chop the brinjals (vangi). Keep the chopped brinjals in a bowl of salted water for 15 minutes. This does not discolor them and gets rid of the bitterness if any.
5\. Once the roasted spices + coconut mixture gets cooled, grind them fine in a dry grinder or coffee grinder. Only 2 to 3 tsp of the goda masala (as per your taste) needs to be added to the rice. The remaining goda masala can be refrigerated and added to vegetable dishes or lentils.
6\. Heat oil in a large thick bottomed pan. First, splutter the mustard seeds and cumin seeds.
7\. Then add onions and saute till the onions turn translucent.
8\. Add curry leaves and green chilies. Stir.
9\. Then add the drained brinjals (vangi) along with turmeric powder. Stir and saute for 3 to 4 minutes.
10\. Stir and then add the soaked rice, 2 to 3 tsp of the freshly ground goda masala and yogurt.
11\. Stir and pour water. Season with salt.
12\. Stir very well.
13\. Cover with a lid and cook the rice on a low flame till the grains are tender and cooked.
14\. Meanwhile, roast cashews in a pan till they get some brown spots on them. You can also add peanuts instead of cashews. Just roast them in the same way.
15\. Once the rice is cooked, fluff gently.
16\. Add grated coconut, chopped coriander leaves and the roasted cashews. Mix gently.
17\. Serve vangi bhat plain or with curd or with raita hot or warm. You can also top with a bit of ghee while serving.
Instructions
making goda masala
On a low flame in a small frying pan, dry roast the whole spices mentioned under the list "for the goda masala", except sesame seeds and desiccate coconut. Roast the spices till they become aromatic.
Then add the desiccated coconut and sesame seeds and continue to dry roast till the coconut becomes golden. Keep stirring regularly so that the coconut does not get burnt. Let this spices cool.
Once the roasted spices + coconut mixture gets cooled, grind them fine in a dry grinder or coffee grinder.
Keep this small batch of goda masala aside and just add about 2 to 3 tsp of it in this recipe. The remaining goda masala can be kept in the fridge in a small bowl or box and added to veggie dishes or dal.
soaking rice and brinjals
Rinse the rice for a few times in water. Then soak the rice in water for 30 minutes and then drain them. Keep the soaked rice aside.
Quarter or chop the brinjals (vangi)
Keep the chopped brinjals in a bowl of salted water for 15 minutes. This soaking does not discolor them and gets rid of the bitterness if any.
making maharashtrian style vangi bath
Heat oil in a large thick bottomed pan and splutter the mustard seeds and cumin seeds.
Then add onions and saute till the onions turn translucent.
Add curry leaves and green chilies. Stir.
Then add the drained brinjals (vangi) along with turmeric powder.
Stir and saute 3 to 4 minutes.
Then add the soaked rice, 2 to 3 tsp of the freshly ground goda masala and yogurt.
Stir and pour water. Season with salt. Again stir very well.
Cover with a lid and cook the rice on a low flame till the grains are tender and cooked.
In case the rice has not cooked and the water has dried, add some water and stir gently and continue to cook the rice.
Meanwhile, roast cashews in a pan till they get some brown spots on them. Instead of cashews, you can also add peanuts and roast them in the same way.
Once the rice is cooked, fluff gently.
Add grated coconut, chopped coriander leaves and the roasted cashews. Mix gently.
Serve vangi bath plain or with raita hot or warm. 
You can also garnish it with coriander leaves and grated coconut while serving.