https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1014830-baingan-bharta
XSearch
Easy 
Baingan Bharta 
Recipe from Julie Sahni
Adapted by Mark Bittman
Yield 4 servings
Time About 45 minutes
EmailShare on PinterestShare on FacebookShare on Twitter
Sabra Krock for The New York Times 
This satisfying vegetarian dish is adapted from a recipe belonging to Julie Sahni, the popular Indian chef, cookbook author and teacher. Its preparation is very similar to baba ghanoush in that you roast and mash the eggplant before seasoning it with aromatics, herbs and spices, but its flavor profile is wildly different. Here, turmeric, garam masala and jalapeño add warmth, while the addition of lime juice provides brightness. Serve it as a dip with flatbread (like pita or store-bought roti), or as a main dish with rice and raita. —Mark Bittman
Featured in: Meaty And Mighty. 
More +
Indian, Eggplant, Dinner, Easy, Main Course, Vegan, Vegetarian
Ingredients
2 pounds eggplant 
2 tablespoons lime juice 
2 to 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1 medium onion, peeled and chopped 
3 cloves garlic, peeled and finely chopped 
1 fresh hot green chile like a jalapeño, or more to taste, thinly sliced (discard seeds for less heat) 
1 pound fresh tomatoes, chopped 
½ teaspoon turmeric 
1 teaspoon kosher salt or to taste 
½ cup chopped cilantro, thin stems included 
2 teaspoons garam masala 
Ingredient Substitution Guide
Nutritional Information
Nutritional analysis per serving (4 servings)
176 calories; 10 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 0 grams trans fat; 6 grams monounsaturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 23 grams carbohydrates; 9 grams dietary fiber; 12 grams sugars; 4 grams protein; 484 milligrams sodium; 
Note: The information shown is Edamam’s estimate based on available ingredients and preparation. It should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. 
Powered by Edamam
Preparation
1. Prick the eggplant with a thin-blade knife. Grill over or next to very high heat, turning as necessary until the skin is blackened and the eggplant collapses. Or broil, or roast on a heated cast-iron pan in the hottest possible oven. It will take about 20 minutes.
2. When the eggplant is cool enough to handle, peel (this will be easy) and trim away the hard stem. Chop or mash in a bowl, with lime juice.
3. Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat; add the onion. Cook, stirring often, until the onion is golden brown, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and chiles and cook for another minute. Add the tomato, turmeric and salt. Cook until the tomato is soft, 5 minutes or so.
4. Stir in the eggplant purée and cook, stirring, 3 to 5 minutes. Stir in the cilantro and garam masala and turn off the heat. Serve hot with warm chapati bread or pita, or over rice.
Like this recipe?
EmailShare on PinterestShare on FacebookShare on Twitter
Adapted from Julie Sahni
More recipes from Mark Bittman
Pasta With Winter Squash and Tomatoes 
Mark Bittman
30 minutes
Tomato Jam 
Mark Bittman
1 hour 30 minutes, plus chilling
Shrimp in Chardonnay Sauce 
Mark Bittman
20 minutes
Clementine Clafoutis 
Mark Bittman
About 1 hour
Easy
No-Bake Blueberry Cheesecake Bars 
Mark Bittman
20 minutes, plus 1 hour’s chilling
Easy
Chocolate Truffles 
Mark Bittman
30 minutes, plus at least one hour’s chilling
Rick Easton’s Pizza With Peppers 
Mark Bittman, Rick Easton
1 hour, plus rising
Chile Chimichurri 
Mark Bittman
10 minutes
Pasta With Chickpeas, Chorizo and Bread Crumbs 
Mark Bittman
20 minutes
Blue Butter 
Mark Bittman
10 minutes
Chicken With Salsa Verde 
Mark Bittman
About an hour
Aioli (Garlic Mayonnaise) 
Mark Bittman, Alice Waters
Time: 10 minutes
Rick Easton's Pizza With Potatoes 
Mark Bittman, Rick Easton
1 hour, plus rising
Creamed Spinach Sauce 
Mark Bittman
30 minutes
Rice With Cheese 
Mark Bittman
30 minutes
Bourbon Balsamic Syrup 
Mark Bittman
20 minutes
Trending on Cooking 
Salted Chocolate Chunk Shortbread Cookies 
Alison Roman
45 minutes, plus chilling
Vegetarian Mushroom Wellington 
Alexa Weibel
3 hours
Baked Brie With Quick Cranberry Jam 
Lidey Heuck
1 hour 10 minutes
Brown-Butter Orzo With Butternut Squash 
Melissa Clark
45 minutes
Brush Up On The Basics With Our Cooking Guides 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Pancakes 
By Alison Roman 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Pasta 
By Samin Nosrat 
Cooking Guide
How to Make Tagine 
By Melissa Clark 
Cooking Guide
How to Cook Potatoes 
By Julia Moskin 
Get Our Newsletter
Get recipes, tips and NYT special offers delivered straight to your inbox. Opt out or contact us anytime. See our Privacy Policy.
Sign Up
Please enter a valid email address.
Follow Us
Get the App
About Us
NYT Cooking is a subscription service of The New York Times. It is a digital cookbook and cooking guide alike, available on all platforms, that helps home cooks of every level discover, save and organize the world’s best recipes, while also helping them become better, more competent cooks. Subscribe now for full access.
Learn More
Our Cooks
See Our Features
FAQ
Tools for Saving
NYTimes.com/food
Shop
Gift Subscription
Merchandise
Send Us Feedback
Recipes
What to Cook This Week
Weeknight
Pasta
Dinner
Healthy
Vegetarian
Vegan
Dessert
Thanksgiving
Christmas
Shop
Gift Subscription
Merchandise
Send Us Feedback
2021 The New York Times Company
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Sorry, your changes didn’t save. 
NO YES
