https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/courgette-mushroom-bread
recipes
how to
health
inspiration
reviews
pancake day
subscribe now
subscriber club
reader offers
more good food
home
recipes
courgette & mushroom bread
save recipe
print
courgette & mushroom bread
by good food team
a star rating of 4.3 out of 5.
52 ratings
rate
59 comments
magazine subscription – try your first 5 issues for only £5
preparation and cooking time
prep:30 mins
cook:50 mins
plus proving time
more effort
serves 6
a great accompaniment to soups and salads or just served warm with a bit of butter
share on facebook
share on twitter
share on pinterest
share on whatsapp
email to a friend
vegetarian
nutrition: per serving
highlight
nutrient
unit
kcal
267 fat
6g saturates
1g carbs
46g sugars
0g fibre
3g protein
9g low in
salt
0.18g ingredients
3 medium courgettes , grated
2 tsp salt
2 tbsp olive oil
1 small onion , finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed
100g chestnut mushroom , chopped
350g strong plain flour
7g sachet easy-blend dried yeast
2 tbsp chopped fresh basil
½ tbsp coarse sea salt , to sprinkle
method
step 1
put the grated courgettes in a colander and sprinkle with 1 tsp of the salt. leave to stand for 20 mins, then, using your hands, squeeze out as much of the moisture as possible. rinse the courgettes thoroughly, then squeeze again.
step 2
heat 1 tbsp of the olive oil in a frying pan and cook the onion and garlic for 4 mins until softened. add the mushrooms and cook for a further 4 mins until softened and browned, then add the courgettes and cook for another 2 mins. strain well and set aside to cool; discard the liquid.
step 3
heat oven to 220c/fan 200c/gas 7. place the flour in a large mixing bowl, stir in the yeast, the remaining oil and salt, the basil and the courgette mixture. mix well to combine. make a well in the centre and add 125ml hand-hot water. mix well to form a slightly sticky dough. knead on a floured surface for about 10 mins, then shape into a ball and place on a greased baking sheet.
step 4
flatten the ball of dough very slightly with the palm of your hand and loosely cover with oiled cling film. leave to rise in a warm place for 25-30 mins until doubled in size. brush the top of the dough with a little water, then sprinkle with the sea salt and bake for 40 mins until golden. leave to cool on a wire rack before serving.
recipe from good food vegetarian christmas, december 2006
more from around the web
promoted stories by
cheeky pie
bbc good food
creamy chicken stew
bbc good food
advertisement
discover how people in portugal are keeping mosquitoes away (it's genius)
top gadget advisor
advertisement
ingressos que custaram mais que um carro
estoa
advertisement
agora é fácil escolher um portátil bom e barato
pc para todos
comments, questions and tips (59)
rate this recipe
what is your star rating out of 5?
1 star out of 5
2 stars out of 5
3 stars out of 5
4 stars out of 5
5 stars out of 5
choose the type of message you'd like to post
choose the type of message you'd like to post
comment
question
tip
overall rating
a star rating of 4.3 out of 5.
52 ratings
simonelauralee
1 year ago
it turned out like foccacia. i had no problems with courgettes, sizes or wetness, just squeezed them a lot . couldn't really taste the mushrooms. the dough was very very wet, so kneading by hand was a sticky business, but it rose and was fluffy and very well received. served with butternut squash…
more
reply
abaxter35
1 year ago
a star rating of 1 out of 5.
dreadful recipe. as an experienced bread maker you have to be specific on quantities and "medium courgette" is totally useless. the bread was a disaster, soggy, unrisen. would not recommend even trying. will not bother trying to improve either
reply
peterdavid196911cv-4uag
1 year ago
hi could you let me know your recipe for bread please someone once told me many years ago but have lost the recipe shame as it was fantastic bread i remember letting it prove for a good few hours. i would really appreciate your recipe many thanks
jenclews
4 years ago
a star rating of 3 out of 5.
i weighed my courgettes as '3 medium courgettes' could be anything from 300-500g! mine were 450g, so i upped the flour by 50g and still added the 125ml of water. it is a wet dough, but wet doughs tend to make softer, more open crumb so it's worth persevering. rather than add more flour (if kneading…
more
reply
manevitt
1 year ago
i love what you have done and will follow your instructions instead. i am by no means a professional bread maker, but i have made enough bread to know that this recipe is very wet. i imagine it will be hard to handle. i like the idea of caramelised onions and sun-dried tomatoes and will most likely…
more
lullaby melodia
4 years ago
a star rating of 5 out of 5.
made this in my bread maker. after reading other reviews i didn't add any water at all. i didn't have any mushrooms so left those out and added a handful of mixed seeds instead. the bread was delicious, my son loved it too.
reply
misccold
5 years ago
excellent recipe. i make it in a bread maker. the water quantity required depends heavily on the courgettes, type, freshness, how well you managed to drain them. the draining is critical. i usually don't need to add any water at all. never add flour - just use less water if the courgettes are very…
more
reply
show more (54)
advertisement
advertisement
related guides
top 15 ways to use courgettes
how to freeze courgettes
how to freeze mushrooms
best bread alternatives
use code: dedica685 and save £15 on the de’longhi “ec 685.m” coffee machine.
get offer
advertisement
you may also like
mushroom risotto
a star rating of 4.7 out of 5.
335 ratings
mushroom soup
a star rating of 4.9 out of 5.
198 ratings
lemony prawn & courgette tagliatelle
a star rating of 4.6 out of 5.
60 ratings
mushroom stroganoff
a star rating of 4.4 out of 5.
382 ratings
easy bread rolls
a star rating of 4.4 out of 5.
118 ratings
meatball & garlic bread traybake
a star rating of 4.4 out of 5.
97 ratings
creamy mushroom pasta
a star rating of 4.4 out of 5.
104 ratings
easy sausage & courgette pilaf
a star rating of 4.5 out of 5.
23 ratings
related recipe collections
vegan courgette recipes
courgette salad recipes
healthy courgette recipes
baked courgette
sponsored content
visit us on facebook
visit us on twitter
visit us on instagram
visit us on youtube
visit us on rss
about us
contact us
privacy policy
terms & conditions
cookies policy
complaints escalation
advertise
manage privacy settings
null logo
this website is published by immediate media company limited under licence from bbc studios distribution.
immediate media company ltd. 2022