https://vanillaandbean.com/vegan-eggplant-meatballs/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Start Here
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Pressed For Time Mains
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Vanilla And Bean
Sweet and Savory Vegetarian
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Subscribe
Shop
About
Subscribe
A little bit about me…
Contact
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
You are here: Home / Main Dish / Beans/Lentils/Pulses / Vegan Eggplant Meatballs
Vegan Eggplant Meatballs
By Traci · Jump to Recipe · 
Vegan Eggplant _Meatballs_ Recipe is a meatless version of a traditional favorite. These no meat, Italian style veggie balls are made with lentils, quinoa, roasted eggplant, Italian herbs and spices. Make ahead easy, freezer friendly and a crowd pleaser, serve em’ up with your favorite marinara and noodles or polenta! This recipe is vegetarian and vegan.
Table of Contents
Comfort Food Season
How to Make Vegan Eggplant Meatballs
How to Roast Eggplant
A Few Recipe Notes
More Eggplant Recipes to Love
Vegan Eggplant “Meatballs”
Comfort Food Season
I never had homemade meatballs until my early 20s when my aunt and uncle prepared them at a family gathering. I thought they were the best thing I’d ever tasted! Tender, juicy and with the perfect amount of Italian seasoning and umami. They were unforgettable!
Did eating a vegetarian diet mean I’d have to give up comfort food favorites? This is what I thought at first, but over time, I discovered a meatless lifestyle doesn’t mean giving up old favorites. It simply means finding new ways to prepare them. And, after-all, I find these vegan eggplant _meatballs_ to be even more flavorful than their meat-filled counterpart!
The recipe starts with roasted eggplant and garlic as the base, infusing smoky flavor and adding richness to these meatless vegetarian balls! Add lentils, quinoa and breadcrumbs for bulk with plenty of herbs and spices and we’re in meatless _meatball_ heaven!
How to Make Vegan Eggplant _Meatballs_
This recipe has several steps but they flow together easily. The payoff is this recipe makes 22 balls, enough to stash some away in the freezer for later. In summary here’s how to make these meatless balls (see full recipe below for more detail):
First , roast the eggplant and garlic.
Second , while the eggplant and garlic is roasting, cook the lentils and quinoa together. All these cook up in about 30 minutes! 
Third , scrape the flesh from the eggplant and squeeze the roasted garlic from it’s papery skins. Place in a food processor with tomato paste and diced shallots and process.
Fourth , place the lentils, quinoa and eggplant mixture into a large mixing bowl. Add herbs, spices and breadcrumbs. Mix well.
Fifth , transfer 3 cups of the mixture to the food processor and process until a fistful holds together. Transfer back to the mixing bowl and mix throughly.
Next , portion and shape the meatless eggplant balls. Rest in the freezer or fridge.
Last , pan fry or bake the balls.
How to Roast Eggplant
There are several ways to roast eggplant from charring on an open flame on stove top, to on the grill or in the oven. Eggplant can be roasted whole or sliced in half, depending on cooking method used. I generally take a shortcut approach when roasting eggplant by slicing the eggplant in half and roasting in the oven (for more details, see recipe card below):
First , slice the eggplant lengthwise, down the center. Slash shallow hash marks over the flesh. Lightly brush flesh with olive oil.
Second , turn the eggplant flesh side down and roast in the oven for about 30 minutes.
Next , to see if the eggplant is done, press the skin. If the skin is dark, almost black, is soft and sinks when pressed, it’s ready.
Last , allow to cool and scrape the flesh out.
Sometimes eggplant can be watery after roasting. For this recipe, simply strain off as much liquid as you can before using it in the recipe.
A Few Recipe Notes
Freezer friendly? Yes please! These eggplant meatless balls are so versatile! Freeze completely after shaping, before or after cooking. Store in a freezer bag for up to two weeks. Thaw in fridge overnight then cook or rewarm.
What to Serve with Vegetarian Eggplant Balls? We love these meatless balls with any shape pasta or zucchini zoodles, our favorite marinara sauce, a sprinkle of parm (vegetarian or vegan), fresh basil and a big salad. They’re just as fabulous shared over polenta covered in marinara or in a saucy sub!
Pan Fry or Bake? I’ve included two cooking methods in the recipe. We prefer the texture and flavor pan frying yields, but these vegan eggplant _meatballs_ can be baked if desired.
Gluten Free? I’ve not tested this recipe with gluten free bread crumbs. If you give it a go, please let us know how it goes in the comments!
DIY Breadcrumbs! This recipe calls for unseasoned bread crumbs. For homemade, I like sourdough. See recipe notes below for an easy DIY method. They store beautifully in the freezer for make ahead ease!
More Eggplant Recipes to Love
Thai Red Curry with Eggplant and Sweet Peppers
Smoky Roasted Eggplant Hummus
Mediterranean Lentils with Roasted Eggplant and Blistered Cherry Tomatoes
Creamy Roasted Eggplant Artichoke White Bean Dip
Print Recipe
the recipe
Vegan Eggplant "Meatballs"
Prep Time:20 minutes
Cook Time:40 minutes
Rest in Freezer:10 minutes
Total Time:1 hour 10 minutes
Servings:22 "Meatballs"
Calories:80kcal
Author:Traci York | Vanilla And Bean
Vegan Eggplant _Meatballs_ are a meatless version of a traditional favorite. These no meat, Italian style veggie balls are made with lentils, quinoa, roasted eggplant, Italian herbs and spices. Make ahead easy, freezer friendly and a crowd pleaser, serve em' up with your favorite marinara and noodles or polenta! This recipe is vegetarian and vegan.
Time above includes the pan fry method. Add 15 more minutes if using the bake method. 
Portions : Plan on 2-3 vegan meatballs per adult. I usually have two, my husband, three. 
Ingredients
1 1/2 lbs (680g) Globe Eggplant about one large or two smallish eggplants
1 Head of Garlic small, tips sliced off with garlic exposed, root in tact. 
3 tsp Olive Oil plus more for pan frying
3/4 C (155g) French Lentils
3/4 C (135g) Quinoa rinsed. I like red or tri color
2 1/2 C (600g) Water
1 Bay Leaf
3 Tbs Tomato Paste
1/3 C (40g) Shallots about one small shallot
3/4 C (60g) Unseasoned Bread Crumbs plus up to 1/4 C more if needed. See note for DIY.
1/2 tsp Red Pepper Flakes
2 Tbs Dried Italian Herbs see note
1 1/2 Tbs Balsamic Vinegar
1 tsp Worcestershire Sauce vegan style
1 1/2 tsp Fine Sea Salt
Instructions
Roast the Eggplant:
Preheat oven to 450F (232C) and set oven rack to top half. Line a large sheet pan with parchment paper. Set aside.
Wrap the garlic in a small piece of foil and drizzle about 1 tsp of olive oil over the top. Wrap loosely and set on the sheet pan. 
Cut eggplant in half lengthwise and score the flesh in shallow cross marks. Generously brush olive oil on the flesh of the eggplant. Arrange flesh side down on the parchment paper. Roast the garlic and eggplant for about 30 minutes or until the eggplant skins darken and begin to sink. When you press on the skin, it will sink and be soft. 
Remove the eggplant and garlic from oven and allow to cool slightly. Unwrap the garlic to allow it to cool. Scrape flesh from the eggplant skin, discard the skin and set the flesh aside. You should have about 1 1/2 cups. 
Cook the Lentils and Quinoa: 
While the eggplant is roasting, cook the quinoa and lentils. In a medium sauce pan, add the quinoa, lentils, bayleaf, pinch of salt and water. Bring to a boil, turn to low and cover with a lid. 
Cook for 20 - 25 minutes or until the lentils are tender, not mushy and no water remains in the pot. Discard the bayleaf and transfer the lentils and quinoa to a large mixing bowl. Set aside. 
Make the No-Meatballs: 
Squeeze the roasted garlic out of its skins and allow it to fall into the work bowl of a food processor fitted with the S blade attachment. To the garlic, add the eggplant flesh leaving behind its juices as best you can, tomato paste and shallots. Process until smoothish or for about 15-20 seconds. Transfer the mixture to the large mixing bowl with the quinoa and lentils. 
To the large mixing bowl add the bread crumbs, pepper flakes, Italian seasoning, balsamic vinegar, Worcestershire and salt. Mix the ingredients until they're evenly distributed. 
Transfer 3 C (525g) of the mixture to the food processor and pulse 15 times stopping once to scrape down the bowl. Check to see if the mixture holds together when squeezed in your fist. Pulse a few more times if needed. 
Transfer the mixture back to the large bowl and mix again until the ingredients are evenly distributed. Test to see if the mixture holds together in your fist. If it seems too moist add a few more tablespoons of bread crumbs. Mix and test again. Taste for seasoning adjustment. 
Shape the Balls:
Line a small sheet pan with parchment paper. Use a 20 cookie scoop or 3 Tbs each to portion the balls. Scoop all the portions then roll into balls. Freeze for 10 minutes or refrigerate for 30 minutes or up to 24 hours before cooking. Flavor improves the longer they rest. 
MAKE AHEAD TIP: at this point the _meatballs_ can be frozen solid before transferring to a freezer bag. Freeze for up to two weeks. 
Cook the Balls:
There are two ways to approach cooking the _meatballs_ \- pan fry or bake. Pan frying creates a crispy, tender _meatball_ while baking omits most of the oil and creates a softer, less crisp meatball. I prefer the flavor/taste frying creates. 
To Pan Fry: Preheat oven to 200F (93C) if holding the balls warm after pan frying. Otherwise, you won't need the oven on.
Pour a shallow layer of oil in a frying pan. I like a cast iron skillet for the job. Heat the oil until it shimmers. Toss a crumb of meatball in the pan. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using tongs, gently transfer the balls into the pan, leaving room between them for rolling/turning. I cook about seven at a time, in a 10" skillet.
Cook for 6-8 minutes, rolling and turning the balls as needed to create a crispy texture or until golden-dark brown. Adjust the heat as necessary. Transfer to a double layer of paper towel to catch pan drippings and sprinkle a pinch of sea salt if desired. Repeat, adding more oil as needed. 
If holding warm, transfer to the oven on a parchment lined sheet pan until ready to eat.
To Bake: Preheat the oven to 375F (190C) and line a sheet pan with parchment paper. Brush the parchment with oil. Bake the balls for 20-25 minutes rotating the balls 2-3 times while baking. 
To Share: 
Enjoy the eggplant _meatballs_ with your favorite pasta and marinara sauce, polenta or on a sub or hogie! Serve with parmesan (vegetarian or vegan) and fresh torn basil. 
To Rewarm:
To rewarm cooked balls, make sure they're thawed from previously frozen, bake on a parchment lined sheet pan at 350F (180C) for about 10-13 minutes or until warmed through. 
Notes
To DIY Bread Crumbs , tear pieces of sliced sourdough and place them in a work bowl of a food processor with the s blade attachment in place. Process sourdough until small crumbs form. Spread the pieces on a parchment lined sheet pan and bake at 350F for about 10-13 minutes or until dry and crispy. Cool completely and use in recipe or store in a freezer bag for up to two weeks. 
If using individual dried herbs sub 1 Tbs oregano, 1 1/2 tsp thyme and 1 1/2 tsp basil. 
Nutrition is provided as a courtesy and is an estimate. If this information is important to you, please have it verified independently. 
Serving: 1"meatball" | Calories: 80kcal | Carbohydrates: 14g | Protein: 4g | Fat: 1g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 208mg | Potassium: 150mg | Fiber: 4g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 68IU | Vitamin C: 2mg | Calcium: 25mg | Iron: 2mg
Made It? Leave a comment below! The most helpful comment may include recipe rating, feedback, any modifications and/or helping other commenters. On Instagram? Take a snap of your make and share, tagging @VanillaAndBean VanillaAndBean! 
You might also like:
Roasted Stuffed Poblanos with Smoky Quinoa, Sweet Potatoes and Black Beans
Mediterranean Lentils with Roasted Eggplant and Tomatoes
Moroccan Butternut Squash Chickpea Stew
Red Curry Masoor Dal (Spicy Red Lentils)
Shares560PinShareYummly
Join over 6000 Subscribers in the Vanilla And Bean community to receive free weekly vegetarian, vegan and sweets recipe inspiration delivered right to your inbox!
You have my permission to email me.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review the Vanilla And Bean privacy policy.
Previous Post: « Vegetarian Stuffed Poblano Peppers
Next Post: Healthy Peanut Butter Bars »
Load Comments
Primary Sidebar
well hello!
I’m Traci and this is my blog. So Glad You Stopped By!
Here you’ll find full of flavor vegetarian comfort food with vegan and gluten free recipes too. I also share sourdough, sweets and naturally sweetened baked goods and desserts recipes because we all gotta have a little balance!
Learn More About Traci or The Blog.
sign up!
Join over 6,000 Vanilla And Bean subscribers and get vegetarian recipes delivered to your inbox!
Click Here to Subscribe
start here!
Why vegetarian, what you’ll find on Vanilla And Bean and fan favorites all right here!
Click Here to Start
Footer
Affiliate Info
Vanilla And Bean is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. This means that if you click on a link and/or purchase an item after clicking on a link, Vanilla And Bean may receive a percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use through my affiliate links. To learn more please see my Affiliate Policy. Thank you for your support!
Vanilla And Bean, LLC – 2021. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of any content or images without express and written permission from this blog’s owner is prohibited. Licensing inquiries for publication, general distribution, and/or commercial use, please contact me on my contact page.
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean · Website by Meyne
Menu
Home · Recipes · Contact · Privacy Policy 
Terms of Use · Accessibility · California Privacy Notice
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean On Genesis Framework · Log in
Get On The List! 
Get On The List! 
Subscribe to the Vanilla And Bean email list to get vegetarian sweets and savory recipe inspiration delivered to your inbox!
Check to confirm we can send you emails.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review our Privacy Policy.
Vanilla And Bean and our partners use cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. By using the Site, you consent to the use of cookies. Learn More
COOKIE SETTINGS ACCEPT
Cookie Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. 
Necessary 
Necessary 
Always Enabled 
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
cfduid| 1| 4 weeks| The cookie is set by CloudFare. The cookie is used to identify individual clients behind a shared IP address d apply security settings on a per-client basis. It doesnot correspond to any user ID in the web application and does not store any personally identifiable information. 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-non-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Non Necessary". 
OptanonConsent| 0| 1 year| Tracks users cookie consent preferences 
viewed_cookie_policy| 0| 11 months| The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. 
Advertisement 
advertisement
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
IDE| 1| 2 years| Used by Google DoubleClick and stores information about how the user uses the website and any other advertisement before visiting the website. This is used to present users with ads that are relevant to them according to the user profile. 
VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE| 1| 5 months| This cookie is set by Youtube. Used to track the information of the embedded YouTube videos on a website. 
Analytics 
analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
ga| 0| 2 years| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to calculate visitor, session, camapign data and keep track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookies store information anonymously and assigns a randoly generated number to identify unique visitors. 
gid| 0| 1 day| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the wbsite is doing. The data collected including the number visitors, the source where they have come from, and the pages viisted in an anonymous form. 
ad-id| 1| 6 months| Provided by amazon-adsystem.com for tracking user actions on other websites to provide targeted content 
GPS| 0| 30 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube and registers a unique ID for tracking users based on their geographical location 
Performance 
performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
gat| 0| 1 minute| This cookies is installed by Google Universal Analytics to throttle the request rate to limit the colllection of data on high traffic sites. 
YSC| 1| | This cookies is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos. 
YTC| persistent| 10 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube to manage the embed and viewing of videos 
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Sign Up For Weekly Newsletter!
Start Here
Home
Shop
About
Contact
A little bit about me…
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
