https://vanillaandbean.com/mushroom-stuffed-cabbage-rolls/#wprm-recipe-container-12350
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Start Here
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Pressed For Time Mains
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Vanilla And Bean
Sweet and Savory Vegetarian
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Subscribe
Shop
About
Subscribe
A little bit about me…
Contact
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
You are here: Home / Main Dish / Beans/Lentils/Pulses / Mushroom Stuffed Vegetarian Cabbage Rolls
Mushroom Stuffed Vegetarian Cabbage Rolls
By Traci · Jump to Recipe · 
Vegetarian cabbage rolls are packed with mushrooms, lentils, and brown rice and simmered in a tomato sauce. They’re umami filled and make a hearty main. This veggie stuffed cabbage roll recipe is make ahead ready and is vegetarian and vegan! 
This recipe was first shared 12/2015. I updated the photography and added additional recipe notes 12/2020. The recipe remains unchanged.
Table of Contents
New Traditions
Trying Something New
What to Serve with Cabbage Rolls
A Few Vegetarian Cabbage Roll Recipe Notes 
More Cabbage Recipes to Love
Mushroom Stuffed Cabbage Rolls
New Traditions
As a new vegetarian, holiday gatherings were usually awkward for me. Familiar traditions were set aside for new and not so familiar when it came to food. I quickly realized there were many delicious ways to enjoy the holidays meat free. 
Vegetarian stuffed cabbage rolls were one of the first recipes I discovered that easily made the holiday table festive and memorable. They’re a bit of effort, and the dishes required many, but in the end, these veggie cabbage rolls are worth the effort to make the holidays feel extra special.
Trying Something New
Years ago, Rob and I went to a little farm-to-table restaurant that served up the most delicious Thanksgiving menu. The traditional turkey and stuffing was served, but for the veggie option they made mouth-watering pierogis stuffed with kale, onions, mushroom, herbs and a bit of cheese. A shallow broth cradled these little packages along with wild mushrooms, carrots, parsnips and herbs. There was a generous serving of pan-fried Brussels sprouts, mashed potatoes, gravy and homemade sourdough.
Have you ever tried a pierogi?
I hadn’t until Thanksgiving that year. They’re little semi-circular dumplings filled with a sweet or savory stuffing, boiled, then pan-fried to impart a bit of a golden color and texture. They’re traditionally made for holiday celebrations. 
Recipe Inspiration
It was those little pierogis and a rather large head of cabbage from the farm that inspired these stuffed veggie cabbage rolls. I love the idea of little packages of deliciousness that when cut into, they reveal the most flavorful of stuffings. And these stuffed cabbage rolls make such a delightful vegetarian holiday main for all things holiday and special occasions. 
And those pierogies? I whipped up a mushroom, potato and pea pierogie recipe for the blog! 
How to How to Make Vegetarian Cabbage Rolls
There’s a bit of overlap in tasking to make this recipe, but it flows easily from one step to the next. Give yourself plenty of time to pull this veggie cabbage roll recipe together, but in case you need a make ahead option, I’m sharing how to on the recipe card. In summary, here’s how to make these cabbage rolls (for full details see below in recipe card):
First , place the cabbage head in a large pot of boiling water to soften the leaves. Drain and set in a colander to cool. Then remove several layers of the outer leaves of the cabbage. 
Next , rehydrate the porcini mushrooms, drain, chop and set aside. 
Meanwhile , cook the lentils and rice in a small sauce pot. Set aside. 
While the lentils and rice are cooking, saute the mushrooms in a bit of oil on medium high heat. Add the shallots and stir until fragrant. 
Continuing , in a food processor, add the mushroom mixture, bread crumbs, tomato paste, salt and fresh thyme leaves. Pulse to bring the mixture together. 
Next , mix together the lentils, rice and mushroom mixture and add seasonings and stuff the cabbage leaves and place in a baker.
Last , make the tomato sauce, pour it over the cabbage rolls and bake. 
While the vegetarian cabbage rolls bake, there’s plenty of time to whip up a salad or other side for sharing.
What to Serve with Cabbage Rolls
Mushroom stuffed cabbage rolls make a delicious, hearty meal. Make the side(s) light to keep these little vegan cabbage rolls center stage. I like to serve this recipe with crusty bread and any of the following or a seasonal salad: 
Roasted Brussels Sprouts with Pear and Thyme
Winter Jeweled Salad
Maple Roasted Cardamom Spiced Carrots and Apples 
Roasted Beet and Apple Salad
Easy Roasted Beets
Sourdough Dinner Rolls – three ways
A Few Vegetarian Cabbage Roll Recipe Notes
When boiling the cabbage to prepare for rolling, handle the leaves gently as they tear easily. To minimize this, after the cabbage has cooled, cut at the base and around the stem to release the cabbage leaves. 
Make ahead? Yes please! Prepare the stuffing and tomato sauce up to two days ahead and store separately in the refrigerator. Or, make rolls one day ahead without making the sauce. Cover the rolls in the casserole dish, and refrigerate. The next evening, make the sauce and bake as written.
Freezer Friendly? While I’ve not frozen this recipe, I wouldn’t hesitate giving it a try. 
Portions : Depending on appetite, plan for one or two rolls per person. One is plenty for me, while Rob always has two. 
Linda made these and noted: “I used Savoy cabbage which is a little easier to work with then white cabbage and I had excellent results.”
More Cabbage Recipes to Love
Lentil-Mushroom Cabbage Roll Soup
White Bean Cabbage Potato Soup
Sesame Ginger Noodle Salad
Thai Ginger Garlic Noodle Bowls
Thai Peanut Noodle Salad
Print Recipe
the recipe
Mushroom Stuffed Cabbage Rolls
Prep Time:1 hour
Cook Time:45 minutes
Total Time:1 hour 45 minutes
Servings:9 -10 Rolls
Calories:138kcal
Author:Traci York | Vanilla And Bean
Packed with umami flavor and nourishing ingredients, these Mushroom Stuffed Cabbage Rolls are a hearty main for all occasions. Make ahead for a stress free dinner! This recipe is vegetarian and vegan.
There is quite a bit of overlap in tasking when preparing this recipe. If needed, make rolls one day ahead. Cover the rolls in the casserole dish, and refrigerate. The next evening, make the sauce and bake as written.
Ingredients
3 lbs (1.4kg) Head of Green Cabbage go larger if 3lb is unavailable
1 oz (28g) Dried Porcini Mushrooms
1/4 C (50g) Long Grain Brown Rice
1/4 C (50g) French or Green Lentils
1 tsp Sea Salt divided
1 Bay Leaf
2 Tbs Olive Oil
3/4 lb (345g) Cremini Mushrooms stems removed and sliced thick
1/2 C (46g) Shallot small chop 
1/2 C (40g) Bread Crumbs Panko or toasted sourdough
1 Tbs Tomato Paste divided
1/2 tsp Ground Black Pepper
1 Fist Full of Fresh Thyme divided
1 (14.5oz / 411g) Can Diced Tomatoes
Reserved Mushroom Soaking Liquid
Dry White Wine and/or Vegetable Broth as needed
Ground Black Pepper
Instructions
Prepare the Cabbage:
Bring a large stock pot, large enough to hold a head of cabbage, of water to a boil. Add the whole head of cabbage and simmer for 9 minutes turning it over once 1/2 way through cooking since it will float. Remove the cabbage and set in a colander to cool. 
When cool enough to handle, gently remove the leaves attempting to keep them in tact as much as possible. To do this, use a pairing knife to cut around the base of the stem, releasing the cabbage leaves so you can gently pull them away from the head. You'll want to try and obtain at least 10, large in tact leaves for rolling. Set aside the torn leaves and/or other leaves which can be used to line the baking dish and/or eat for lunch the next day.
The leaves closest to the core won't fully soften, so if more leaves are needed, you can place these individually in the pot of hot water to soften or store the remaining head in the fridge to be later used in a another recipe. 
For the Stuffing:
Rehydrate the Porcini: Place the porcini in a bowl. Scoop out 2 C (472g) of that very hot water the cabbage is cooking in and pour over the porcini mushroom. Cover the mushrooms with a lid and rehydrate 30 minutes. Strain, reserving the soaking liquid. Squeeze out as much soaking liquid from the mushrooms as possible. Rough chop the mushrooms and set aside.
Cook the Lentils and Rice : In a small sauce pot bring 1 1/2 C (454g) of water to a boil. Add 1/4 tsp salt, bay-leaf, lentils and rice. Turn heat to low, put a lid on the pot and cook for about 35-40 minutes, or until rice and lentils are tender. The lentils will cook faster than the rice, but this is okay for our application.
Cook the Mushrooms: In a nonstick saute pan add two Tbs of olive oil, heat until shimmering then add all the mushrooms. Give them a good stir then let them cook for about 2 minutes at a time before stirring again. We want to get a good sear on the mushrooms. Cook for about 13-14 minutes. Add the shallots about 3 minutes before the mushrooms are done.
Process the Mushrooms: In a food processor, add the mushroom mixture, bread crumbs, 1 tsp of tomato paste, 1/2 tsp salt and fresh thyme leaves from about 7 stems. Pulse about 4 times, scrape down bowl and pulse again a few more times so that mixture comes together but is not pasty. 
Mix the Stuffing: When lentils and rice are done, scoop the mushroom mixture into the sauce pot the rice and lentils were cooked in. Add about 1/2 tsp of ground black pepper. Stir well to combine and taste for seasoning adjustment. Set aside.
For the Tomato Sauce:
To the same pan you sautéed the mushrooms in, pour in the reserved mushroom broth. Simmer on medium for about 2 minutes. The broth will begin to cook down a bit. Stir in the remaining tomato paste until dissolved. Add 1/4 tsp of salt and a few grinds of black pepper. Stir in the diced tomatoes and cook on low for about 2-3 minutes. Set aside.
To Assemble:
Preheat oven to 350F (180C). Lightly spray a large casserole dish with pan spray.
Line the dish with 3-4 cabbage leaves, or enough to cover the bottom and most of the sides. If the leaves hang over the edges, this is okay. To lay them flat you may need to cut a notch a the base of each stem.
For the remaining cabbage leaves, if the stem is tough and won't easily roll, cut a small notch out. Scoop about 1/4 C (40g) of the mushroom mixture and place it near the base of the cabbage leaf. Gently fold in the sides and start rolling, tucking in the sides as needed. 
Place in baking dish, seam side down, on top of the leaves. Repeat, adjusting the amount of filling as needed for smaller leaves, until all the filling is used. The rolls can be crowded, just not overlapping. If you run out of room, start another baking dish and line as with the first baking dish.
Pour the sauce over and around the top of the rolls. The sauce should come just up the sides of the rolls, not submerged. Drizzle white wine and/or veggie broth over the top as needed.
Give each roll a good few grinds of black pepper and a pinch of salt over the top. Lay 5-6 sprigs of fresh thyme across the top.
Bake, uncovered for 40-50 minutes until the tops are a bit golden with some a little crispy. Remove from oven, discard crispy thyme leaves and let set for five minutes before serving. Sprinkle fresh thyme over the top before serving. 
Store in lidded container in fridge for up to two days.
Notes
For a Make Ahead Meal: Make rolls one day ahead without making the sauce. Cover the rolls in the casserole dish, and refrigerate. The next evening, make the sauce and bake as written.
Inspired by A Polish Country House Kitchen
Nutrition is provided as a courtesy and is an estimate. If this information is important to you, please have it verified independently. 
Calories: 138kcal | Carbohydrates: 24g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 4g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 394mg | Potassium: 640mg | Fiber: 6g | Sugar: 8g | Vitamin A: 229IU | Vitamin C: 61mg | Calcium: 94mg | Iron: 2mg
Made It? Leave a comment below! The most helpful comment may include recipe rating, feedback, any modifications and/or helping other commenters. On Instagram? Take a snap of your make and share, tagging @VanillaAndBean VanillaAndBean! 
You might also like:
BBQ Black Eyed Pea Collard Rolls
Black Eyed Peas with Smoky Collards and Cheesy Grits
Cauliflower-Potato Red Lentil Curry
Creamy Vegan Mushroom and Wild Rice Soup
Shares3.8kPinShareYummly
Join over 6000 Subscribers in the Vanilla And Bean community to receive free weekly vegetarian, vegan and sweets recipe inspiration delivered right to your inbox!
You have my permission to email me.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review the Vanilla And Bean privacy policy.
Previous Post: « Bourbon Vanilla Bean Shortbread Cookies
Next Post: Cocoa Nibby Pecan Shortbread Cookies »
Load Comments
Primary Sidebar
well hello!
I’m Traci and this is my blog. So Glad You Stopped By!
Here you’ll find full of flavor vegetarian comfort food with vegan and gluten free recipes too. I also share sourdough, sweets and naturally sweetened baked goods and desserts recipes because we all gotta have a little balance!
Learn More About Traci or The Blog.
sign up!
Join over 6,000 Vanilla And Bean subscribers and get vegetarian recipes delivered to your inbox!
Click Here to Subscribe
start here!
Why vegetarian, what you’ll find on Vanilla And Bean and fan favorites all right here!
Click Here to Start
Footer
Affiliate Info
Vanilla And Bean is monetized in part through the use of affiliate links. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. This means that if you click on a link and/or purchase an item after clicking on a link, Vanilla And Bean may receive a percentage of the sales price. I only recommend products that I love and use through my affiliate links. To learn more please see my Affiliate Policy. Thank you for your support!
Vanilla And Bean, LLC – 2021. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of any content or images without express and written permission from this blog’s owner is prohibited. Licensing inquiries for publication, general distribution, and/or commercial use, please contact me on my contact page.
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean · Website by Meyne
Menu
Home · Recipes · Contact · Privacy Policy 
Terms of Use · Accessibility · California Privacy Notice
Copyright © 2021 · Vanilla and Bean On Genesis Framework · Log in
Get On The List! 
Get On The List! 
Subscribe to the Vanilla And Bean email list to get vegetarian sweets and savory recipe inspiration delivered to your inbox!
Check to confirm we can send you emails.
You will receive recipes and kitchen tips, along with information about our partners and offerings. For more details, review our Privacy Policy.
Vanilla And Bean and our partners use cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. By using the Site, you consent to the use of cookies. Learn More
COOKIE SETTINGS ACCEPT
Cookie Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. 
Necessary 
Necessary 
Always Enabled 
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
cfduid| 1| 4 weeks| The cookie is set by CloudFare. The cookie is used to identify individual clients behind a shared IP address d apply security settings on a per-client basis. It doesnot correspond to any user ID in the web application and does not store any personally identifiable information. 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". 
cookielawinfo-checkbox-non-necessary| 0| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Non Necessary". 
OptanonConsent| 0| 1 year| Tracks users cookie consent preferences 
viewed_cookie_policy| 0| 11 months| The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. 
Advertisement 
advertisement
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
IDE| 1| 2 years| Used by Google DoubleClick and stores information about how the user uses the website and any other advertisement before visiting the website. This is used to present users with ads that are relevant to them according to the user profile. 
VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE| 1| 5 months| This cookie is set by Youtube. Used to track the information of the embedded YouTube videos on a website. 
Analytics 
analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
ga| 0| 2 years| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to calculate visitor, session, camapign data and keep track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookies store information anonymously and assigns a randoly generated number to identify unique visitors. 
gid| 0| 1 day| This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the wbsite is doing. The data collected including the number visitors, the source where they have come from, and the pages viisted in an anonymous form. 
ad-id| 1| 6 months| Provided by amazon-adsystem.com for tracking user actions on other websites to provide targeted content 
GPS| 0| 30 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube and registers a unique ID for tracking users based on their geographical location 
Performance 
performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Cookie| Type| Duration| Description 
gat| 0| 1 minute| This cookies is installed by Google Universal Analytics to throttle the request rate to limit the colllection of data on high traffic sites. 
YSC| 1| | This cookies is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos. 
YTC| persistent| 10 minutes| This cookie is set by Youtube to manage the embed and viewing of videos 
Recipes
Recipe Index
Sourdough
Sourdough Discard Recipes
Gluten Free Sourdough
Seasonal
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Sign Up For Weekly Newsletter!
Start Here
Home
Shop
About
Contact
A little bit about me…
Let’s Work Together
Blogs I’m Reading
Blogger Resources
