https://www.196flavors.com/iran-torshi-seer/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Asia / Western Asia / Iran / Torshi Seer
Torshi Seer
March 15, 2017 by Vera Abitbol 17 Comments
Tweet
Share 289
Pin 196
Email
485 Shares
Any Iranian will say that a meal is not complete without _torshi_!
This is probably one of the longest recipes ever shared. Long and yet so simple. Torshi can be stored for several years and actually becomes tastier with age.
What is torshi?
Torshi are vegetables that are pickled in brine from the cuisines of several countries in the Balkans and the Middle East, as well as Arab countries.
They are called torshi (ترشى) in Egypt as well as in Iran, _tirşîn_ or _tirsi_ in Kurdistan, _tursu_ in Turkey, _τουρσί_ or _toursi_ in Greece, _turshiya_ (туршия) in Bulgaria, _turšija_ (туршија) in Bosnia and Croatia, _turshi_ in Serbia, _tourchi_ or _tourchou_ in Armenia, and _khamusim_ (חמוםים) in Israel .
Related Posts:
Torshi are also very popular in other parts of the world and in different cultures, especially with the Afghans, Albanians, Pakistanis, and Macedonians.
What is the origin of the word torshi?
The word torshi comes from the word torsu which itself comes from the word torsh, which means “sour” in Farsi and in Kurdish. In Turkey and in Azerbaijan, it means the same thing but the word is pronounced tursu.
The different versions of torshi
At the beginning of the fall, Iranians prepare a wide variety of torshi according to regional customs and holidays.
Although you could make torshi with many different vegetables, there are 3 torshi recipes that stand out and are the most popular:
torshi litéh_ (ترشی لیته): eggplant, carrots and herbs 
torshi badem-joon_ (ترشی بادمجون): eggplant 
torshi seer_ (سیر ترشی): garlic
How to make torshi seer
The recipe presented here is torshi seer, which literally means “garlic preserved in vinegar”.
Torshi seer, in its simplest version, is made with garlic, salt and vinegar. The vinegar can be as simple as white vinegar as well as cider vinegar, sweet wine vinegar, malt vinegar, or balsamic vinegar.
If white vinegar is used, honey will generally be added to the torshi recipe. A mixture of spices or herbs may also be added including cloves, or barberries.
Fermenting the garlic torshi for a long time will help make the garlic melt in the mouth. The garlic should be pickled with its skin, the thinnest that is in contact with the pulp. The garlic and its skin will soften with age. After a few years, it can be spread on a piece of meat, fish or bread. In Iran, they even make sandwiches with it.
After a few weeks, the garlic can sometimes develop a bluish or greenish hue. The change of color is not harmful and is the result of the natural presence of sulfur and enzymes in garlic that react in an acidic environment.
The intensity of the hue comes from a wide range of factors, such as the age of the garlic when harvested and the chemistry of the soil. It is completely safe, non-toxic and is not a sign of deterioration. After a few years, the aged garlic cloves can take a uniform brown hue, the same color as balsamic vinegar.
Torshi seer and Nowruz
Garlic holds a very important place among all the traditions of the table of Nowruz (نوروز), also known as the Persian New Year.
The main tradition of Nowruz is Haft Sîn (هفت سین, seven “S”), seven objects whose name begins with the letter S or sîn (س) in the Persian alphabet. They are seven specific objects arranged on a table corresponding to the seven creations and the seven immortals protecting them. Every family tries to make the prettiest table of Haft Sin, especially for the spiritual side. 
Do not make the mistake of preparing a small batch of torshi seer. If you decide to prepare some, then go for a larger batch. Otherwise, you will have to make more as you get old, and you may never get a chance to taste them.
So… Let’s meet in 7, 10, or even 20 years!
SaveSaved
Print
4.67 from 3 votes
Torshi Seer
Torshi are pickled vegetables in brine that are popular in the Balkans, the Middle East as well as most Arab countries. Torshi seer is the garlic version.
Prep Time15 mins
Course: Condiment
Cuisine: Persian, Vegan, Vegetarian
Servings: 3 (1 cup / 250 ml) jars
Author: Vera Abitbol
Ingredients
10 heads garlic (not old and without any germ)
3 cups cider vinegar (or red or white wine vinegar, sweet or balsamic vinegar)
Coarse salt (about 1½ tablespoon per 1-cup jar)
1 tablespoon cloves (or barberries)
Equipment
Glass jars
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Wash the jars thoroughly and rinse them in scalding water for about ten minutes. Let them dry.
Remove the husk from the garlic heads. Keep the thin skin on the garlic cloves. You may separate the cloves or not. Both are perfectly fine.
Place the garlic cloves in the jars and then cover them with the vinegar previously mixed with the coarse salt.
Place clove or barberry on top as desired.
Close the jars tightly.
Label each jar with the date of preparation.
Place the jars in a dark, cool and dry place for at least 1 year, and up to 20 years.
Once opened, torshi seer keeps very well in the refrigerator.
Video
Notes
It is possible to use white vinegar. In this case, add one tablespoon of honey or brown sugar per jar.
Vera Abitbol
Vera is the “expert” of the 196 flavors’ duo. With over 30 years of experience in the kitchen, she is now sharing her skills as a private chef and cooking instructor.
Tweet
Share 289
Pin 196
Email
485 Shares
Filed Under: Asia, Condiment, Dairy-free, Gluten-free, Iran, Iraq, Middle East, Nowruz, Vegan, Vegetarian, Western Asia Tagged With: apple cider vinegar, barberry, clove, garlic, red wine vinegar, vinegar
Previous Post: « Ghormeh Sabzi
Next Post: Joojeh Kabob »
Reader Interactions
Comments
March 18, 2017 at 4:20 pm
Great idea! I love this. I am thinking that I will do it because this is so useful. I am really grateful to give recipe ingredients and instruction. The most important thing is, it has included huge information which is important. I am very happy to visit here.
Reply
August 15, 2017 at 10:03 am
I have a question about opening the jar to let the gas out … For the first week. Is it needed? Or do I just close it tightly and leave it to ferment in a cool/dark place? Also, if I’m using more than one jar … Should I put 3 cups of vinegar each jar with the amount of salt recommended or what? 
Thank you for the recipe.
Reply
August 15, 2017 at 5:57 pm
Hello Sara 
You shouldn’t let any gas out. Just leave the jar unopened for a few months at least. For the amount of vinegar, just follow the ratios based on your jar sizes. Enjoy!
Reply
September 10, 2018 at 10:31 pm
Once I make it can it be stored in a fridge? I live in a very humid place.
Reply
September 12, 2018 at 3:31 am
Absolutely Monay!
Reply
October 15, 2018 at 2:19 am
can I use jars with plastic lids to store the garlic/vinegar?
Reply
October 15, 2018 at 3:23 am
Teresa, you can, but they will not keep as long. Never tried, but I’d say a few weeks in the refrigerator.
Reply
February 3, 2019 at 4:47 pm
Mike 
What do you recommend for a lid? I use mason jars and put wax paper over the jar. But the vinegar still corroded the lid and the vinegar evaporated out of the jar.
Reply
February 4, 2019 at 7:37 pm
Never had that issue Scott, but I’d say to use some kind of cheesecloth or thin canvas (hessian or burlap). Good luck!
Reply
June 29, 2019 at 8:45 pm
A company called Krautsource sells mason jar lids and bands made of stainless steel. Pricey but they don’t corrode.
Reply
November 9, 2018 at 1:53 pm
I was taught to cover the jar with cheesecloth and refill as the vinegar evaporates. Any comments?
Reply
November 9, 2018 at 4:54 pm
Yes Lisa, you can use this technique to allow the fermentation gases to evaporate, especially at the beginning of the process.
Reply
September 17, 2020 at 11:42 pm
I’m having to open the jar to fill it with vinegar every 2-3 weeks because so much vinegar evaporates. Is that ok and is there a way to stop it from evaporating so much? I’m planning on waiting 15 years before eating. At what point does it need to be refrigerated?
Reply
September 18, 2020 at 6:25 am
If the jar is properly sealed, the vinegar should not evaporate.
Reply
February 3, 2019 at 4:44 pm
I started some in 2015. I opened it today and all the vinegar was evaporated. It tasted ok. So I am going to refill with vinegar. I don’t know if this is ok or not.
Reply
May 15, 2020 at 7:27 am
Great recipe thank you so much. Wondering if I could leave the cloves oout?
Reply
May 15, 2020 at 12:21 pm
Of course, Wendy. You can adapt with the spices that you prefer.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
