https://stylishcravings.com/keto-everything-bagel-cheese-chips-recipe/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Blog
About Me
Privacy Policy
Search
Style & Beauty
DIY
Recipes
Family
menu icon
search icon
Search
Style & Beauty
DIY
Recipes
Family
About Me
Blog
Privacy Policy
Home » Recipes
Last Updated: September 1, 2020
Keto Everything Bagel Cheese Chips Recipe
Disclosure: As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. This post may contain affiliate links. We may receive a small commission at no cost to you when you make a purchase using our links.
Share 453
Tweet
Pin 257K
Yum 5
Share
257K Shares
This easy Keto Everything Bagel Cheese Chips Recipe uses 3 different types of cheese for a crunchy and salty snack that’s super easy!
Keto Cheese Chips
You know those times when the snack-cravings hit? Those are tough times when you are on the keto diet. I know all too well how badly I just want to dig into a bag of potato chips, but I also don’t want to go out of ketosis. It’s just not worth it! 
That’s why I just had to create this recipe. I wanted a low-carb snack that nipped that chip-craving in the bud. This really does it too! 
Easy Healthy Keto Cheese Chips Snack_
This is an easy healthy keto snack that the entire family can enjoy. Sure it’s low-carb but these chips are so delicious that you’ll find the entire family eating them too! You might want to make a double batch of them – they will go fast! 
The best thing about these Keto Everything Bagel Cheese Chips is that they’re good for you too. You see, the cheese is an excellent source of protein for your muscles and to stay in ketosis. It’s also a good source of healthy fats and calcium. 
Vitamin A in cheese is great for our eyes and immune system. Cheese also has vitamin B12 which is amazing for our blood. It helps prevent anemia and gives us energy. 
My Favorite Everything Bagel Chips_
Have you ever tried the Everything But the Bagel Seasoning? It’s incredibly addicting. It’s full of seasonings and salt and tastes amazing on so many things. I’ve been known to sprinkle a bit on some slices of avocado or on my eggs in the morning. 
When you sprinkle this seasoning on these chips, it turns them into one of your favorite varieties of crispy chips you’ve ever had! 
Best Cheese to Make Keto Chips_
What is the best kind of cheese to use to make crispy keto cheese chips? I used a combination of three different cheese and I think it turned out perfectly. 
I found that the combination of cheddar, mozzarella, and parmesan cheese makes crispy chips with loads of flavor. 
How To Customize the Easy Keto Chips Recipe_
Have fun customizing this recipe to suit your tastes. Try to swap out the Everything But the Bagel seasoning with pepperoni and make some keto pizza chips. 
You can even add some jalapeños for spicy keto chips.
Easiest Chips You Will Ever Make_
There are only 4 easy ingredients. These are going to be the most simple chips you have ever made. I love that they only take 11 minutes too, talk about instant gratification! 
How To Store Low-Carb Cheese Chips_
If you actually have extras left over to store, you have more self-control than I do! I’m kidding, but you really will enjoy them that much. 
If you do have chips that you need to store, just keep them in an airtight bag or container. They will stay fresh in your pantry or on your counter for about a week or two. 
Do not freeze these chips. Thawing them changes the texture way too much. 
More Low-Carb Snacks_
Here are some more of my favorite keto-friendly snack ideas. If you enjoyed my easy keto chips recipe, then you will love these as well. 
Keto avocado chips
Easy restaurant-style salsa
Keto zucchini fritters
Keto-Friendly Dips_
Since these chips have Everything But the Bagel seasoning on them, they taste much better when you eat them by themselves. I’ve dipped them in keto tzatziki sauce before and that tasted amazing. 
If you don’t like how they taste with the dip and the chip seasoning, just make some chips without the seasoning. 
Here are some more keto-friendly dips that you can try too:
Try a low-carb cheese dip. If you are sensitive to dairy, then eating melted cheese with crispy cheese snacks might be a bit much. It sure tastes amazing though. 
Another one of my favorite dips is a low-carb spinach artichoke dip. This is also cheese-based, but it’s so delicious! 
No matter what, just keep counting those macros and you’ll be fine! 
Easy Keto Chips Recipe
Here’s the entire recipe. Don’t forget to pin this post so you can find it again later. It’s super easy, but it’s still good to have the original recipe just in case you need it. 
Ingredients
Exact measurements are located within the printable recipe card below.
Cheddar cheese
Mozzarella cheese 
Parmesan cheese 
Everything but the Bagel Seasoning
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees and line a sheet pan with parchment paper.
Combine all three kinds of cheese and half a tablespoon of seasoning in a bowl and mix well.
Using a teaspoon-sized amount, place each amount on the parchment-lined pan, keeping 1-2 inches between each chip. You will either need to do two sheet pans or two orders.
Bake for 7-11 minutes, depending on the oven and how dark you want them.
Upon removing from the oven, sprinkle with remaining seasoning.
Let the keto chips sit on the sheet pan for 5-10 minutes to harden, and then transfer to another dish to cool completely.
Pin for later!
Follow me on Pinterest!
Print
KETO EVERYTHING BAGEL CHEESE CHIPS RECIPE
This easy Keto Everything Bagel Cheese Chips Recipe uses 3 different types of cheese for a crunchy and salty snack that’s super easy!
Course Snack 
Cuisine American 
Keyword KETO EVERYTHING BAGEL CHEESE CHIPS 
Prep Time 5 minutes
Cook Time 10 minutes
Total Time 15 minutes
Servings 24
Calories 250 kcal
Ingredients
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup mozzarella cheese
3/4 cup parmesan cheese
1 tbsp Everything but the Bagel Seasoning
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees and line a sheet pan with parchment paper.
2. Combine all three kinds of cheese and half a tablespoon of seasoning in a bowl and mix well.
3. Using a teaspoon-sized amount, place each amount on the parchment-lined pan, keeping 1-2 inches between each chip. You will either need to do two sheet pans or two orders.
4. Bake for 7-11 minutes, depending on the oven and how dark you want them.
5. Upon removing from the oven, sprinkle with remaining seasoning.
6. Let the keto chips sit on the sheet pan for 5-10 minutes to harden, and then transfer to another dish to cool completely.
Recipe Notes
Calories: 250 
Net Carbs: 1 Net Carb per serving - 4 servings total - 6 chips per serving
The nutritional information for this recipe is calculated as a courtesy and is an approximate only. I cannot guarantee the accuracy of the nutritional information for any recipes on this site._
Share 453
Tweet
Pin 257K
Yum 5
Share
257K Shares
Shared by Jasmine Espinal
About Jasmine Espinal
Stylish Cravings is the personal lifestyle blog of Jasmine Espinal. We cover everything from style, DIY's, shopping tips, recipes we love and daily tidbits on life with 7 kids.
Never Miss A Minute
Get Tips · Tricks & Goodies right in your inbox!
Primary Sidebar
Welcome to Stylish Cravings
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Latest Posts
Low Carb Thai Cucumber Salad
Keto Ricotta Toast
Join The Newsletter
GET TIPS · TRICKS & GOODIES 
RIGHT IN YOUR INBOX!
Search
Footer
Stylish Cravings is a participant in the Amazon affiliate advertising program that is designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com._
The links
Privacy Policy
About Me
Contact Us
Categories
Style & Beauty
Family
Recipes
Kids
DIY
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Get Tips · Tricks & Goodies 
right in your inbox!
2022 Stylish Cravings
By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept
The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this.
Close
