https://aplantifulpath.com/instant-pot-vegetable-stew/
Skip to content
Contact Us
About Me
Menu
All Recipes
Recipes by Course
Vegan Breakfast
Vegan Appetizers and Snacks
Vegan Main Dish
Vegan Side Dish
Vegan Condiments and Sauces
Vegan Dessert
Vegan Baking
Resources
10 Tips for Eating a Plant Based Diet
Oil Free Cooking Tips
How to Stock Your Plant Based Pantry
My Favorite Kitchen Items
Recommended Books
Plant Based Websites
A Path to . . .
Home » Blog » Vegan Main Dish » Instant Pot Vegetable Stew
Instant Pot Vegetable Stew
by Teresa Sklenicka
4.58 from 63 votes
Jump to Recipe
This post may contain affiliate links. Read my disclosure policy.
Sharing is caring! 
5438 shares
Facebook3613
Pinterest1825
Twitter
This Instant Pot Vegetable Stew is the ultimate vegan comfort food. The potatoes, carrots, celery, onion, and peas are cooked in a thick, savory tomato broth to keep you warm and cozy during these cold fall and winter months._
Winter is coming! I can tell by the bitter cold nights we’ve had this week here in the Pacific Northwest. The cold temperatures were a great reason for me to cook up a pot of this Instant Pot Vegetable Stew. Who doesn’t love a good stew? They are so satisfying when the weather is cold, and they are also a great way to get more veggies into your diet. 
This vegan stew is inspired by a pot roast recipe I used to make way back before I was vegan. I remember cooking it for hours in my slow cooker, and the house smelling so delicious. Well, this stew is just as good without meat. And because it’s thickened with red lentils, it has an extra boost of protein. It also cooks fast in my Instant Pot and fills the house with a mouth watering aroma!
This stew is so delicious! The vegetables practically melt in your mouth, and the broth is so thick and savory. This is the perfect meal for the cold winter months!
To make this stew meatier, you can add in some seitan when you add the peas. Or add some mushrooms, like my husband does. I’m not a mushroom fan, however, so I make the stew without.
How to Make Instant Pot Vegetable Stew
Begin by sautéing the onion and celery in the Instant Pot on the Sauté setting, until the onion is translucent. Add in the garlic and saute for about a minute, until the garlic is fragrant, but be careful not to burn it. Then add the tomato paste and cook for one more minute. 
Add the rest of the ingredients, except the peas. Stir, and then cook on the Manual setting for 10 minutes with a natural pressure release.
Once the pressure has come down, remove the lid and stir in the peas. Replace the lid, but don’t seal it, and let the peas cook in the stew for about 5 minutes on the Keep Warm setting. 
Serve the stew with some nice crusty whole grain bread and enjoy!
For other savory, warming meals, see:
Instant Pot Vegetable Soup
Thick and Hearty Vegan Chili
Vegetable Dal in the Instant Pot
Easy Vegan Black Bean Soup
Black Eyed Peas with Greens
Looking for more Instant P ot recipes?
Vegan Sloppy Joes
Instant Pot Mexican Brown Rice
Potato Kale Soup
Savory Black Beans
And if you love your Instant Pot, don’t miss my roundup of over 25 oil free vegan Instant Pot recipes from around the web!
Pin to save for later:
If you make this recipe, please be sure to leave a rating and feedback below. It only takes a few seconds, but helps other visitors to my site and helps my site gain other readers. Thank you for taking the time to leave your comment!_
And come join myOil Free Vegan Recipes and Support Facebook group, where you can share your favorite oil free vegan recipes, and give and receive support on your plant based journey._
Print Pin
4.58 from 63 votes
Instant Pot Vegetable Stew
This Instant Pot Vegetable Stew is the ultimate vegan comfort food. The potatoes, carrots, celery, onion, and peas are cooked in a thick, savory tomato broth to keep you warm and cozy during these cold fall and winter months.
Course Main Course, Soup
Cuisine American
Keyword Carrots, Gluten Free, Oil Free, Potatoes, Vegetable Stew
Prep Time 30 minutes
Cook Time 30 minutes
Total Time 1 hour
Servings 6
Calories 377.3kcal
Author Teresa Sklenicka
Equipment
Instant Pot
Ingredients
1 onion chopped
3 celery stalks diced
5 cloves garlic minced
6 oz. can tomato paste
6 carrots roughly chopped
8 small to medium Russet potatoes cut in large cubes
5 cups veggie broth
¾ cup dry red lentils rinsed
2 teaspoons dry mustard
2 teaspoon dry parsley
1 ½ teaspoons oregano
1 teaspoon paprika
1 bay leaf
½ teaspoon black pepper
1 cup frozen peas
Instructions
In the Instant Pot, sauté the onion and celery on the Sauté setting until soft. Add a small amount of water to loosen vegetables if they begin to stick.
Add the garlic and sauté 1 or two more minutes. Stir in the tomato paste and cook for 1 minute.
Add the carrots, potatoes, veggie broth, red lentils, and the seasonings. Cook in the Instant Pot on manual setting for 10 minutes with a natural pressure release.
When the pressure has come down, remove the lid and stir in the peas. Replace the lid and leave the pot on the “Keep Warm” setting for approximately 5 minutes or until the peas are cooked.
Notes
If you want a meatier stew, add in some pieces of seitan or some mushrooms, but I love this stew with just the vegetables.
For the vegetable broth, I prefer to use Better Than Bouillon. Feel free to substitute with any vegetable broth you like.
Nutrition
Calories: 377.3kcal | Carbohydrates: 80.7g | Protein: 14.1g | Fat: 1.5g | Sodium: 341mg | Fiber: 13g | Sugar: 12.4g | Vitamin A: 13603IU | Vitamin C: 34.85mg | Calcium: 15mg | Iron: 4.34mg
Nutrition calculations are approximate._
Categories Vegan & Gluten-Free, Vegan Dinner, Vegan Fall Recipes, Vegan Instant Pot, Vegan Lunch, Vegan Main Dish, Vegan Recipes, Vegan Soup, Vegan Winter Recipes
By Teresa Sklenicka on November 1st, 2019
About Teresa Sklenicka 
I love creating tasty, oil-free, vegan recipes that everyone will love (even non-vegans)! Here you'll find vegan versions of your favorite comfort foods, as well as some new tastes! Join me on a path to improving your health, helping the planet, and saving animals.
More posts by this author.
Hi there! I'm Teresa. Thanks for stopping by! I'm excited to share with you my recipes for tasty, oil-free, vegan food that everyone will love (even non-vegans)! Join me on a path to improving your health, helping the planet, and saving animals. 
Find out more about me!
Search for:
Tags
Appetizers Asian Baking Beans Black beans Breakfast Cake Cashews Cheese Chocolate Christmas Condiments Corn Desserts Dinner Dips Dressing Freezer Friendly Gluten-free Grilling Ice Cream Instant Pot Lentils Lunch Meat Substitutes Mexican Muffins Oil-free One pan Pasta Potatoes Quick & Easy Quinoa Rice Salad Sandwiches Sauces Seitan Side dishes Snacks Soup Soy curls Teriyaki Tofu Zucchini
Links
Privacy and Cookie Policies
About Me
Contact
MUST TRY RECIPES:
Instant Pot Vegetable Stew 
Vegan Mozzarella Cheese 
Vegan Country Gravy Mix 
Easy Berry Sauce 
Disclosure
This blog is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. All our thoughts and opinions are our own and we are not paid for or mandated to provide a positive review._ 
2022 A Plantiful Path
All Recipes
Recipes by Course
Vegan Breakfast
Vegan Appetizers and Snacks
Vegan Main Dish
Vegan Side Dish
Vegan Condiments and Sauces
Vegan Dessert
Vegan Baking
Resources
10 Tips for Eating a Plant Based Diet
Oil Free Cooking Tips
How to Stock Your Plant Based Pantry
My Favorite Kitchen Items
Recommended Books
Plant Based Websites
A Path to . . .
About me
Contact Us
Close
