https://www.food.com/ideas/how-to-make-tamales-7147
Recipes
POPULAR
COMFORT FOOD
Search
Stumped for dinner? Get our life-saving Dinner Daily newsletter. You (and your stomach) can thank us later!
Sign up
PART OF International Eats
How to Make Tamales
Originating in Mesoamerica thousands of years ago, tamales have become a staple in Mexican cooking and tradition for many families. And it's easy to understand why — making a big batch of these meaty masterpieces is the perfect excuse to invite your loved ones over to help (and then eat!). Not sure where to start? Follow our step-by-step guide to create perfectly sweet and savory tamales every time.
Tamale Time
A tamale—or _tamal_ in Spanish—can be stuffed with a variety of fillings including different meats, cheeses, beans and vegetables. In this guide, you'll learn how to make them with slow-cooked pork and red chili sauce. But once you master the process, your options are endless!
Step 1: Gather Your Ingredients
Measure and prep all of the ingredients to make the process as efficient as possible. For a full list of ingredients, click on the recipe below. You'll also need a 5-quart Dutch oven and a steamer basket to go inside it.
Get the Recipe: Traditional Pork Tamales
Advertisement
Step 2: Start the Meat
In your Dutch oven, add pork, water, onion, garlic and salt and bring to a boil. Cover and simmer until the meat is tender (about 2 1/2 hours). While the meat cooks, make your red chili sauce.
Step 3: Roast the Chilies
Remove the stems and seeds from your dried chilies, then roast them at 350°F for 2-5 minutes until they are fragrant.
Get the Recipe: Red Chili Sauce
Step 4: Soak the Chilies
Remove your chilies from the oven and soak them in enough hot water (at least 3 cups) to cover for about 30 minutes, or until cool.
Advertisement
Step 5: Blend the Chilies
Put the chilies and 2 1/2 cups of the soaking water into a blender, reserving the rest of the water for later. Blend until smooth.
Step 6: Season
Add garlic, cumin and salt into the blender and blend everything until smooth.
Step 7: Melt Flour Into Oil
In a sauce pan over medium heat, stir the flour into hot oil or melted shortening until smooth. Cook the mixture until it is slightly browned.
Advertisement
Step 8: Stir In Chili Mixture
Carefully stir in the blended chili mixture and simmer uncovered for 5-10 minutes until it has thickened slightly. If it gets too thick, add some of the remaining chili soaking water.
Step 9: Prepare the Meat
Once the meat is tender, remove it from the broth and let both cool. Strain the broth and reserve 6 cups, then shred the meat with two forks.
Step 10: Combine Meat & Sauce
Combine your shredded meat and red chili sauce and simmer (covered) for about 10 minutes. Set aside.
Advertisement
Step 11: Soak Corn Husks
In a large bowl, soak the corn husks in warm water for 20 minutes. While they are soaking, move on and make the masa.
Step 12: Prepare Shortening for the Masa
In a small bowl, beat the shortening with a hand mixer on medium speed for about a minute.
Step 13: Mix Dry Ingredients for the Masa
In another bowl, mix the masa harina, baking powder and 2 teaspoons of salt.
Advertisement
Step 14: Make the Masa
Alternate between adding the dry mixture and the reserved broth into the shortening, beating well after each addition. Add just enough broth to create a thick and creamy masa.
Step 15: Assemble the Tamales
To assemble each tamale, spread 2 tablespoons of the masa mixture on the center of the corn husk. Place about 1 tablespoon of meat and sauce mixture in the middle of the masa.
Step 16: Fold the Husk
Fold in the sides of the husk, then fold up the bottom.
Advertisement
Step 17: Steam the Tamales
Place a mound of extra husks or a foil ball in the center of a steamer basket placed in your Dutch oven or large pot. 
Lean all of the tamales in the basket, open side up. Add water just to cover the bottom of the basket. Cover and simmer for 40 minutes, adding water if necessary.
Time to Eat
Serve your tamales with the leftover red chili sauce and enjoy the fruits of your labor! To save some for future meals, leave them in the husks and place them in freezer bags.
Get the Recipe: Traditional Pork Tamales
Get the Recipe: Red Chili Sauce
Advertisement
KEEP SCROLLING FOR NEXT STORY 
I WANT TO MAKE 
View Suggestions
air fryer recipes
slow-cooker faves
top copycat recipes
Japanese food
weeknight eats
healthy lunches
BACK TO TOP 
All Categories
Site Map
About Us
Help
2022 Discovery or its subsidiaries and affiliates.
All rights reserved.
Privacy Notice
Visitor Agreement
Close
Share this recipe:
title}}
Pinterest __Facebook __Email
No Results
Whoops! There are no results for your search. Please modify your search and try again. 
Cancel Search Again
Hey There!
Looking for one of your favorite recipes? You'll notice that Recipe Box is now called SAVES and your recipes are organized in COLLECTIONS. 
Plus, all of your private notes can now be found directly on the recipe page under the directions. 
Ok, Got It!
