Step 1: Gather Your Ingredients
Measure and prep all of the ingredients to make the process as efficient as possible. For a full list of ingredients, click on the recipe below. You'll also need a 5-quart Dutch oven and a steamer basket to go inside it.
Step 2: Start the Meat
In your Dutch oven, add pork, water, onion, garlic and salt and bring to a boil. Cover and simmer until the meat is tender (about 2 1/2 hours). While the meat cooks, make your red chili sauce.
Step 3: Roast the Chilies
Remove the stems and seeds from your dried chilies, then roast them at 350°F for 2-5 minutes until they are fragrant.
Step 4: Soak the Chilies
Remove your chilies from the oven and soak them in enough hot water (at least 3 cups) to cover for about 30 minutes, or until cool.
Step 5: Blend the Chilies
Put the chilies and 2 1/2 cups of the soaking water into a blender, reserving the rest of the water for later. Blend until smooth.
Step 6: Season
Add garlic, cumin and salt into the blender and blend everything until smooth.
Step 7: Melt Flour Into Oil
In a sauce pan over medium heat, stir the flour into hot oil or melted shortening until smooth. Cook the mixture until it is slightly browned.
Step 8: Stir In Chili Mixture
Carefully stir in the blended chili mixture and simmer uncovered for 5-10 minutes until it has thickened slightly. If it gets too thick, add some of the remaining chili soaking water.
Step 9: Prepare the Meat
Once the meat is tender, remove it from the broth and let both cool. Strain the broth and reserve 6 cups, then shred the meat with two forks.
Step 10: Combine Meat & Sauce
Combine your shredded meat and red chili sauce and simmer (covered) for about 10 minutes. Set aside.
Step 11: Soak Corn Husks
In a large bowl, soak the corn husks in warm water for 20 minutes. While they are soaking, move on and make the masa.
Step 12: Prepare Shortening for the Masa
In a small bowl, beat the shortening with a hand mixer on medium speed for about a minute.
Step 13: Mix Dry Ingredients for the Masa
In another bowl, mix the masa harina, baking powder and 2 teaspoons of salt.
Step 14: Make the Masa
Alternate between adding the dry mixture and the reserved broth into the shortening, beating well after each addition. Add just enough broth to create a thick and creamy masa.
Step 15: Assemble the Tamales
To assemble each tamale, spread 2 tablespoons of the masa mixture on the center of the corn husk. Place about 1 tablespoon of meat and sauce mixture in the middle of the masa.
Step 16: Fold the Husk
Fold in the sides of the husk, then fold up the bottom.
Step 17: Steam the Tamales
Place a mound of extra husks or a foil ball in the center of a steamer basket placed in your Dutch oven or large pot. 
Lean all of the tamales in the basket, open side up. Add water just to cover the bottom of the basket. Cover and simmer for 40 minutes, adding water if necessary.
Time to Eat
Serve your tamales with the leftover red chili sauce and enjoy the fruits of your labor! To save some for future meals, leave them in the husks and place them in freezer bags.