https://platedcravings.com/authentic-easy-german-spaetzle-recipe/#wprm-recipe-container-4380
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
German Food
About
Contact
How to Subscribe
Nav Social Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
search...
menu icon
search icon
search...
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
Contact
About
Subscribe
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Home > Sides & Salads > Easy German Spaetzle Recipe
Easy German Spaetzle Recipe
Jump to Recipe · By: Julia Foerster · Posted: 01/28/16 · Updated: 12/19/17
Easy German Spaetzle Recipe – ready in only 15 minutes and a great German side dish for all kinds of recipes! It’s super easy to make from scratch and downright delicious._
Spätzle is a special kind of egg noodle that is often enjoyed as a side dish with gravies or sauces but also the main ingredient in other dishes like the famous Käsespätzle. Toss them with a little bit of melted butter and you have an easy but so delicious side dish that the whole family enjoys! They taste like chewy egg noodles and can be made savory but also sweet.
Have you tried spaetzle before? No? Then prepare yourself for an amazing treat. This easy homemade spaetzle recipe is the only one you ever need and a great alternative to rice, noodles, or potatoes. It can be made in advance which makes preparing a meal for the whole family less stressful.
Germany has great cakes like my German Apple Streusel Sheet Cake and my Plum Cake with Streusel but there’re also many delicious savory dishes like Schnitzel, pork roast, and dumplings.
Spaetzle are one of my favorite dishes! They make a great side for everything that comes with a sauce or gravy like goulash or beef stroganoff but are also a delicious main dish with melted cheese and crispy fried onions or with a simple mushroom gravy.
The word Spätzle literally means _“little sparrows”_ in English but they are also called Knöpfle in Germany because they look like little buttons. You can get them in many different sizes and shapes in Germany.
My mother-in-law always makes a bigger version that is called Spatzen ( _“sparrows_ “). They taste like the little ones but are sized like small potatoes and you don’t need special equipment to make them.
A few years ago we always bought pre-made spätzle because we thought making them at home from scratch was too difficult and time-consuming. But after making the first batch, we can’t eat the pre-made ones anymore. It’s so easy to make them at home and they taste so much better! Spaetzle are made with flour, eggs, and milk (or water) – you could say they are German egg noodles.
HOW TO MAKE SPAETZLE FROM SCRATCH
You put a few spoons of dough on the board and slide the scraper back and forth, the batter drops through the holes into the simmering water and after a minute or so the spaetzle are done. You need to use a big pot because they will rise to the surface when they’re done.
After you used about half of the batter you probably need to drain the first batch to make room in your pot for the other half otherwise they will stick together and don’t cook completely. If you don’t use them immediately add a little butter while they’re hot and store them in an airtight container.
To reheat, melt some butter in a pan and toss them in it to warm through. They’ll get a bit crispy which makes them even more delicious in my opinion. And if you have leftover spaetzle you need to try my easy Kaesespaetzle recipe.
The batter for this easy German side dish is mainly made of eggs and flour. In Germany, you can buy special Spätzle flour which is a little bit coarser than all-purpose flour but normal all-purpose flour will do the job just fine. But please don’t use self-rising flour for this recipe or you’ll end up with a big mess.
You could make them only with eggs but it’s easier to add a little bit of water or milk. There seems to be a big discussion if water or milk is better (or more traditional) but I like to make mine with milk because they taste better in my opinion but if you’re allergic to milk you can easily substitute the milk in my recipe for water.
You could also add some more spices to the batter but traditionally spaetzle don’t have much taste of their own because they are supposed to be eaten with flavorful foods like gravy or cheese. One way to spice things up a bit is to add herbs like parsley, chives, or basil to the batter.
social_warfare buttons=”Pinterest, Facebook”]
Servings: 8
Easy German Spaetzle Recipe
Easy German Spaetzle are ready in only 15 minutes and make a great side for all dishes served with a sauce!
Prep Time: 5 minutes
Cook Time: 10 minutes
Total Time: 15 minutes
Course: Side Dish
Cuisine: German
Calories: 296kcal
Author: Julia Foerster
4.88 from 48 votes
Print PIN RECIPE Rate
Ingredients
Cups \- Metric
4 cups all-purpose flour
2 tsp salt
8 large eggs
3/4 cup milk
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
In a bowl, whisk together the flour, eggs, milk, and salt. Stir until the batter is well combined and develops bubbles. You can also use a mixer. The batter should neither be too thin nor too thick or it will be difficult to make the spaetzle with your spaetzle maker. Let the batter sit for 5-10 min.
Put a colander into a bowl to drain the Spaetzle once cooked and bring a large pot of water over high heat to a boil, add about 1 Tbsp of salt to the water, and reduce temperature to a simmer.
Press batter through a spaetzle maker, a large holed sieve or colander into the simmering water.
Work in batches, after using about 1/3 of the batter stop adding new spaetzle and let them cook for about 2-3 minutes, or until they float to the top. Stir occasionally. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the spaetzle to the colander so that excess water can drip off.
Serve the spaetzle immediately or saute them in butter to crisp them up a little. If you don't serve or saute them right away, add 1 or 2 Tbsp of butter to the hot spaetzle to prevent them from sticking together.
Notes
UPDATE 10/23/19: Recipe has been re-tested because of reader feedback and amount of milk has been increased from 1/3 cup+2 Tbsp to 3/4 cup of milk.
This makes a big batch of Spaetzle that is perfect for a big family dinner.
Clean used equipment with cold water, the dough is very sticky and gets stickier when using hot water.
Leftover Spaetzle can be stored, tossed with some melted butter, in an airtight container in the fridge for 3-4 days. To reheat, saute them in some butter.
Nutrition Information
Calories: 296kcal | Carbohydrates: 48g | Protein: 12g | Fat: 5g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 164mg | Sodium: 940mg | Potassium: 141mg | Fiber: 1g | Vitamin A: 255IU | Calcium: 45mg | Iron: 3.7mg
Did you Make this Recipe? Tag me Today!Share it on Instagram and tag @platedcravings or platedcravings!
Here are a few more delicious German recipes:
German Gingerbread 
Covered Apple Cake 
Vanilla Crescent Cookies 
Kaiserschmarrn 
Onion Tart 
Spinach Wrap with Feta and Chickpeas
Banana Bread with Maple Walnut Topping »
Plated Cravings owns the copyright on all images and text and does not allow for its original recipes and pictures to be reproduced anywhere other than at this site unless authorization is given. If you enjoyed the recipe and would like to publish it on your own site, please re-write it in your own words, and link back to my site and recipe page. Read my Disclosure and Privacy Policy. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Free Air Fryer Course
Tips and strategies to get you air frying...fast!
Yes, I want in!
Thanks! Keep an eye on your inbox for updates.
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. Chance says
November 19, 2021 at 8:54 pm
It was pretty good. Sauteed with butter and coriander.
Unfortunately, I skipped to the recipe and just made it. Didn’t see that, AFTER the recipe is described, another step to increase the amount of milk is added. Wonder if it would’ve been better like that commenter described.
Reply
Julia Foerster says
November 20, 2021 at 8:26 am
I’m not really sure what you’re referring to, Chance. The notes in the recipe card below the instructions just say that the amount of milk was increased when the recipe was retested compared to an earlier version of the recipe. All the measurements listed in the ingredients section are correct, there is no additional step to increase anything. So if you used a 3/4 cup of milk you did everything right.
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Welcome!
Hi, I'm Julia! Born in Germany, I call Canada now my home and love to share my favorite dishes with you! Here you'll find hundreds of recipes, all made from scratch with lots of tips and detailed step-by-step instructions. ➝ Visit my about page and ➝ subscribe to never miss a new recipe! 
Favorite Recipes
Black Forest Cake
Best Brioche French Toast
Butterscotch Cookies
Blueberry Bread
Easy Creme Brulee Recipe
Chocolate Mousse Cake
Top Posts
Moist Lemon Cake Recipe
Air Fryer Donuts
Air Fryer Onion Rings
Apple Strudel Recipe
Air Fryer Chicken Wings
Oven Roasted Potatoes
Footer
back to top
About
Privacy Policy & Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
As Featured On
Contact
Contact
Copyright © 2020 Plated Cravings
noscript=1
