https://ceratisitaliankitchen.com/category/zucchini/
Skip to content
Cerati's Italian Kitchen
L'arte del buon mangiare!
Menu 
About
Basics
Bread Dough
Tomato Sauces
Basic Pasta Dough
Crêpes
Category: zucchini
Pasticcio of crêpes, zucchini and ricotta to fill the hearts…
June 17, 2021 ~ Vickie ~ 1 Comment
and stomachs of your guests, friends and family! Spring and summer offer many occasions to cook dishes that can stand alone as a light lunch, as a side dish at a barbecue, or at a potluck. Zucchini is beginning to abound once again, so here is a dish I have been tinkering for a while – a “pasticcio” of crespelle or crêpes with zucchini and ricotta. The term “pasticcio” literally meaning mess is a term attributed to many baked dishes or casseroles. This recipe is like a lasagna which is made with flat strips of pasta layered with meat, vegetables, cheese, and besciamella (white sauce). But no pasta here! The recipe calls for crêpes instead! 
You can make all the components ahead of time, then pull them together and bake quickly.
Pasticcio di Crespelle con Zucchine e Ricotta
This recipe was adapted from a recipe in _La Cucina Italiana_ (Febbraio 2002)
First, make the crêpes following your favorite recipe or this one I have on my blog. Crepes and follow 2. Set the crêpes aside as you work on the other ingredients.
Filling
4 large zucchini (600 gr) , sliced thinly
1 large onion, cut in half then sliced thinly
½ cup grated parmigiano
1 egg 
1-2 cloves garlic
1 tablespoons chopped parsley
1-2 tablespoons butter
2 cups ricotta (I prefer whole milk for this recipe, but lowfat works as well)
1/2 – 1 cup milk (depending on the thickness of the ricotta)
1 tablespoon olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste
Instructions
1\. In a pan, lightly sauté the garlic in a tablespoon or two of olive oil until slightly golden. Add the zucchini slices, salt and pepper, stir and cook until gently soft for about 10 minutes. Add the parsley, then set aside.
2\. In another pan, sauté the sliced onions in a tablespoon (or two depending on taste) of butter (I also added a tablespoon of olive oil). Season with salt. Add a ¼ cup of water on the bottom of the pan and watch the onions carefully as they can burn easily. Cover if necessary and lower the heat until the onions have softened. Then cool and set aside.
3\. In a separate bowl, combine the ricotta, the egg, the milk and stir until smooth. Season with salt and a little pepper. Add 1/4 cup of the grated parmigiano.
The Assembly!
1. You can use either a 10 inch round glass pie pan or a an 8×11 rectangular pyrex dish. I have use both and either works well. Lightly grease the pan with softened butter. Form the bottom layer of the lasagna by placing one crêpe in the center and working around the dish place the other crêpes so that their edges overflow the dish. 
2. Add 1/2 of the zucchini and onion mixture and smooth it equally over the crêpes. Add the ricotta mixture enough to moisten, but not overwhelm the zucchini. Dust with a bit of grated parmigiano.
3. Add another layer of crêpes, this time not worrying about the edges. Repeat with the remaining zucchini mixture and ricotta mixture.
4. Top with the crêpes and the remaining ricotta mixture. You can add more grated parmigiano and a sprinkle of chopped.thyme. I also experimented with a little grated monterey jack or mozzarella. Fold over the crêpes drapped over the edge to finish. Cook in a 350 (F) or 200 (C) degree oven for 30 minutes. Allow it to sit for 10 minutes before serving or serve lukewarm.
The resulting dish is light, yet satisfying. Enjoy at room temperature or even cold from the fridge! 
Share this:
Tweet
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
Pages
About
Basics
Basic Pasta Dough
Bread Dough
Crêpes
Tomato Sauces
Give me your email and I will send you my posts!
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 166 other followers 
Email Address: 
Follow 
Looking for Something Special?
Looking for Something Special? Select Category almond flour antipasto appetizer baked pasta beans cake canned tuna cheese chicken chocolate clams cocktail crêpes dessert digestivo fire-roasted peppers first course food memoir fresh pasta gnocchi liquor main dish Mexican breakfast minestrone pasta pasta class pasta salad peppers pesto oil pizza pork quick and easy restaurant review salads Seafood side dish sorbet soups special occasions street food Uncategorized vegetarian zucchini
Archives
Archives Select Month June 2021 February 2021 January 2021 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 July 2018 June 2018 July 2017 June 2017 November 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 
Follow Us
Translate for me!
Top Posts & Pages
Pasticcio of crêpes, zucchini and ricotta to fill the hearts...
Crêpes
What can be better than chocolate cake?
Basic Pasta Dough
Cheesy Pasta: Move Over Mac!
Ribollita - a Tuscan Comfort Food
Torta di Mele - An apple cake and sweet comfort!
Pasta with Mushroom and Peas
Chicken with Peppers and Tomatoes
Figs! Figs!
Website Powered by WordPress.com. 
Follow Following
Join 166 other followers
Sign me up 
Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.
Customize
Follow Following
Sign up
Log in
Report this content
View site in Reader 
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email (Required) Name (Required) Website
d bloggers like this: 
