https://www.recipetineats.com/eggplant-curry-south-indian/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to footer navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
RecipeTin Eats
Fast Prep, Big Flavours
Main Menu
Display Search Bar
My RecipeTin
Search Recipes...
My RecipeTin
Recipes
Recipes By Category
Mains
Chicken
Chicken mince
Beef Recipes
Ground Beef (Mince)
Pork
Lamb
Turkey
Shrimp / Prawns
Salmon
Fish
Salad Meals
Soups
One Pot
Slow Cooker
Sides
All
Vegetables
Show Off Salads
Rice
Potato
Pasta
All
Pasta bakes
Pasta salads
Sweet
Cake recipes
Cupcakes & Muffins
Cookies
Puddings & Cosy Desserts
Bite Size
Pies
Slices & Bars
Frosting & Icing
Cuisine
Asian
All
Stir fries
Noodles
Soups
Chinese
Japanese
Korean
Thai
Vietnamese
French
Greek
Indian
Italian
Mediterranean
Mexican
Middle Eastern
South American
Dietary
Gluten Free
Low Calorie
Vegetarian
Other Categories
BBQ
Breakfast
Burgers
Cocktails
Party Foods
Rice Recipes
Roasts
Sandwiches & Sliders
Iconic Dishes✨
Collections
About
Me
RecipeTin Meals
Free Recipe Books
Contact
eBooks
The Food Photography Book
Chicken Wings Cookbook
Food Bloggers Central
Nitty Gritty
Policy: Use of Recipes & Images
Privacy & Disclosure
Home __Collections __Curries
Eggplant Curry – South Indian Brinjal Curry
By:Nagi
Published:10 Aug '20Updated:12 Nov '21
191 Comments
Recipe v Video v Dozer v
This Eggplant curry is not for the faint hearted! Eggplant _(Brinjal)_ is roasted rather than fried for a healthier yet equally delicious alternative (high temp does the trick here), then simmered in an intensely spiced Indian curry sauce so it sucks up the flavour and partially collapses to create a big pot of juicy (delicious) mush.
Low cal at 250 calories and incidentally vegan. Yay vegans!
Eggplant Curry
This is a curry inspired by the famous Sri Lankan eggplant curry we love at New Shakthi Sri Lankan in Homebush (Sydney, Australia). It’s one of those “hole in the wall” places where the servers get grumpy if you dare to take the time to mull over which 3 curries you want in your lunch pack.
“Hurry, hurry, people are waiting!”_ they say, gesturing at the queue forming behind you.
And, flustered, I quickly jab my finger at a bunch of curries – because really, it doesn’t matter what you choose because everything there is good (and cheap).
Their eggplant curry ( _Brinjal curry)_ is particularly famous – it has an intensely deep, smoky and sweet taste we suspect comes from deep frying the eggplant to get massive caramelisation and rich, oily goodness.
This recipe is a more achievable and healthier home version, and because we can’t replicate the same Sri Lankan curry flavour without deep frying, we’ve had to head to a more general South Indian style.
But the results are no less tasty! And much less oil!
What’s the difference between North and South Indian curries?
India is a country of 1.3 billion people, with a deep, rich and complex food history that is highly regional. I do not pretend to be an expert, but this is a super-generalised attempt to explain features of northern versus southern Indian food!
North Indian cuisine is historically influenced by the Arabs and Middle East, so tends to use more meat and dairy, with foods based on yogurt, ghee, and nuts – like Butter Chicken, Tikka Masala and Rogan Josh. Wheat is the staple crop, so you find flatbreads such as chapaati, paratha and naan are the more traditional meal accompaniments. The tandoor also originates from the north, hence dishes like Tandoori Chicken come from the north.
South Indian food tends to be less meat-oriented, with vegetarian or seafood dishes made without dairy most common — such as this Eggplant Curry. Tropical produce naturally features heavily – coconut, tamarind, curry leaves, local vegetables distinct to the region — and the food can also be spicier. Rice and legumes are also the staples in the south, and from this part of the country hail legendary Indian dishes like dosa, vada and idli.
What goes in eggplant curry
Here’s what goes in the Eggplant Curry.
Don’t fret if you can’t get all the spices – I have solutions for you! See the recipe card notes.
The two ingredients in this eggplant curry that makes it stand out as a truly authentic South Indian Curry are black mustard seeds and curry leaves.
Eggplant – small to medium eggplants are best so every piece has a bit of skin which helps them hold together when simmering in the sauce, rather than turning into a big pot of eggplant puree. Asian eggplants (the thin ones) will also work here;
Black mustard seeds – they look like poppyseeds but have a slight wasabi-like bite to them. And they smell Indian, not Japanese! 😂 Not spicy, more a fresh zing. _It’s about $1.50 in small packs at Indian grocery stores – I go to Indian Emporium in Dee Why on the Northern Beaches, Sydney. Also sold in the Indian food section at someWoolworths (Australia) $1.70, and also sold online – small, light pack so postage should be minimal! __Also used in_ Dal _and in thisVegetable Samosa Pie which is to-die for! _
Curry leaves – it smells like curry powder, but in fresh curry leaf form! (Though just so you know, curry powder isn’t derived from curry leaves 🙂 ) Curry leaves add incredible curry perfume into anything it’s used in. Fairly accessible nowadays for Sydney-siders, sold at Harris Farms, most Coles and Woolworths. _I intend to find a plant!_ They keep for ages in the fridge – as in several weeks – or can be frozen. _This too is used in_ __Dal _and theVegetable Samosa Pie. Throw in 10 or so when cooking _Curried Rice _, or into this_ Indian Chickpea Curry _or_ Vegetable Curry _– it will really take it to a new level!_ Substitute: dried curry leaves (not quite the same, but it’s the best sub) or Garam Masala powder;
The other spices – nothing out of the ordinary here, everything you find at local grocery stores;
Coconut – coconut milk or cream is fine here. Only 3 tablespoons – it doesn’t make it taste of coconut, but it’s remarkable what a difference it makes to add a touch of luxury to the mouthfeel of this curry. _Leftover coconut milk:_ _Freeze the rest in ice cube trays and use in recipes that call for a splash of coconut. Otherwise, do a recipe search for “coconut milk” and select “Using this ingredient” and it will bring up a list of recipes that have coconut milk in the ingredients. Most recipes won’t suffer if you are short just 3 tbsp. Partial can uses: Gado Gado peanut sauce, scaled down batch of Thai Satay Peanut sauce._
Tomato – anything is fine here, pulp or passata (base recipe), or canned crushed tomato (crush it more by hand to make it more fine) or even a dollop of tomato paste;
Garlic and ginger – as with most Indian curries, a good wack is essential for a good curry experience!
How to make it – Roasted Eggplant for curry
Here’s how to roast the eggplant – cut into thick batons (they shrink a lot), then roasted at a high temperature with just 2 tablespoons of oil so the outside is nicely caramelised, the inside is soft and juicy, and it holds its form rather than collapsing into mush. Simply the best way to cook eggplant in the oven!
Notice how the eggplant pieces are beautifully browned on the outside and still holding their form, rather than being a soggy pile of mush (which is what happens if you roast at a lower temp). _Just_ holding in the juicy insides!!
How to make Eggplant Curry
And here’s how the curry is made:
Fry off the mustard seeds and curry leaves – _your house is going to smell insane!_
Cook off the ginger and garlic (your house will smell even more incredible!);
Add the spices (your neighbours will catch a waft and start salivating);
Then tomato and water, mix it up into a very intensely flavoured curry sauce;
Add eggplant and simmer so it absorbs the flavour (neighbours will come knocking at this point);
Then lastly, stir in the coconut milk (neighbours will be camped out on your door step, refusing to leave without a taste).
What it tastes like
This is not one for the faint hearted – it’s not mild and creamy like Butter Chicken. It’s a very intense authentic Indian curry flavour, as opposed to a generic flavour like those recipes you see made with a load of just “curry powder” and maybe some Garam Masala.
The dominant flavour here are the curry spices – you can’t taste the tomato (for thickening the sauce) nor the coconut milk (for slight richness to mouthfeel).
Also, another specific characteristic with this curry is that it’s not saucy. It’s one big pot of juicy (I’m going to say it!) MUSH. You don’t need a separate sauce!
Healthy! 250 calories per serve.
Indian food actually uses a LOT of oil in cooking. You would fall off your chair if you knew how much your friendly local Indian restaurant is using for his curries!
Yes there’s still 5 tablespoons of oil in this, but it’s a vegetable curry so lacks all the additional fat that the meat in a meat curry would drop and so has to compensate to be tasty.
But it’s not so unhealthy – in fact, it clocks in at just 250 calories per serving!
Though if I had my way it would be 1/2 cup of oil ….😂 _– Nagi x_
PS. Pictured here with basmati rice and dollop of yogurt. Naan or this simpler flatbread for stuffing wouldn’t go astray as alternatives. For a fresh side, try this South Indian-style Cabbage & Carrot Salad with Coconut, this Minted Yogurt Tomato Salad, this fresh creamy Cucumber Salad or even plain roasted Broccolini (skip the Tahini sauce in the recipe). More Veg and Salad Sides here. And if you’re going low carb, use Cauliflower Rice instead (the sauce is so strong, you won’t care).
Watch how to make it
Hungry for more? Subscribe to my newsletter and follow along on Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram for all of the latest updates.
Eggplant Curry - South Indian Brinjal Curry
Author: Nagi
Prep: 15 mins
Cook: 1 hr
curries, Mains
Indian
4.96 from 82 votes
Servings 4 \- 5 people
Tap or hover to scale
Print
Recipe video above. This curry is not for the faint hearted! Eggplant (Brinjal) stars in this strong flavoured curry, roasted rather than fried for a healthier yet equally delicious (high temp does the trick here), then simmered in an intensely spiced South Indian curry sauce so it sucks up the flavour and partially collapses to create a big pot of juicy (delicious) mush. 
Incidentally vegan (as much of South Indian food is). See recipe notes for subs for the harder to find spices. And when you've made this, use the same spices to make this Vegetable Samosa Pie!
Spiciness: Pretty mild. Spiciness only comes from the chilli powder so if you're concerned, skip or reduce it!
Ingredients
CupsMetric
Roasted Eggplant:
2 tbsp vegetable oil (or canola)
700g / 1.2 lb eggplant (aubergine) , 2 medium (Note 1)
1/2 tsp each salt and pepper
Curry:
3 tbsp vegetable oil (or canola)
3/4 tsp black mustard seeds (Note 2)
14 curry leaves, fresh (Note 3)
1 red onion , quartered and thinly sliced
3 tbsp passata or tomato pulp (or canned tomato) (Note 4)
1 tbsp garlic , grated (4 cloves approx)
1 tbsp ginger , grated (1.5cm piece approx)
1 1/4 cups water
1 1/4 tsp salt
3 tbsp coconut milk or cream, full fat (Note 5)
Curry Spices:
1/4 tsp cardamom powder
1/4 tsp ground clove
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/2 tsp chilli powder or cayenne (NOT US Chilli Powder)
4 tsp coriander powder
4 tsp cumin powder
Serving
Basmati rice
Yogurt , highly recommended
Coriander/cilantro leaves , optional
Easy flatbread (as naan!) , optional
Instructions
Roasted Eggplant:
Preheat oven to 240°C / 450°F (220°C fan). Line tray with parchment/baking paper.
Cut eggplant into 2cm / 4/5" slices, then cut into 2cm / 4/5" batons.
Place in large bowl, toss with oil, salt and pepper.
Spread on tray, roast 20 minutes. Turn, roast for a further 10 minutes - edges should be caramelised, soft inside, but they're not shrivelled up and dismal. Use per recipe.
Curry:
Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat. Add mustard seeds, let them sizzle for 15 seconds.
Add curry leaves, stir, leave to sizzle for 15 seconds - seeds might pop, Indian cooking is very dramatic!
Add onions, cook 5 minutes until golden brown.
Add tomato, cook for 1 minute, stirring.
Add garlic and ginger, cook 2 minutes.
Add Curry Spices and salt, and cook for another 3 minutes - it will be a thick paste and might stick to the bottom of the pot, don't let it burn (if it starts to, remove from stove and quickly add splash of water to loosen).
Stir in water, and then add the eggplant.
Gently stir, partially cover, reduce heat to low and simmer 30 minutes. Stir carefully once or twice (so the eggplants don't break up completely), add more water if it dries out.
Stir in coconut milk, taste then add more salt if needed.
Your result should be a very thick, juicy, strongly flavoured curry with eggplant partially intact but half collapsed.
Serve with basmati rice and a dollop of yogurt and fresh coriander leaves, if you want.
Recipe Notes:
1\. Eggplant \- smaller the better eg. 2 x 300g eggplants, they hold together better. Asian eggplants ok too.
Alternative to roasting - pan fry in a little oil over medium high heat, rotating to brown all sides. Don't worry if it's a little raw inside once the outside is golden, it will finish cooking in the sauce.
2\. Black mustard seeds \- key ingredient for authentic flavour. Look like poppyseeds, wasabi bite, Indian aroma! _~ $1.50 in small packs at Indian grocery stores (my local is Indian Emporium in Dee Why, Sydney). Also sold in the Indian food section at someWoolworths (Australia) $1.70, otherwise try online._
Substitutes (starting with best):
Brown mustard seeds
Yellow mustard seeds
1/2 tsp mustard powder
1/2 tsp Garam Masala (different flavour, but is intended to make up for absence)
Add with rest of spices
3\. Fresh curry leaves \- another key ingredient for authentic flavour! Sub 10 dried curry leaves. Fairly accessible nowadays for Sydney-siders, sold at Harris Farms, most Coles and Woolworths. 
Substitute:
dried curry leaves (not quite the same, but it's the best sub);
1 tsp Garam Masala powder (add it with rest of spices).
4 . Tomato - anything is fine here, pulp or passata (base recipe), or canned crushed tomato (crush it more by hand to make it more fine) or even a dollop of tomato paste.
5\. Coconut milk - no point using low fat because this is added to add a hint of richness. You can't taste coconut. Can sub a splash of cream.
Leftover coconut milk:_ _Freeze the rest in ice cube trays and use in recipes that call for a splash of coconut. Otherwise, do a recipe search for "coconut milk" and select "Using this ingredient" and it will bring up a list of recipes that have coconut milk in the ingredients. Most recipes won't suffer if you are short just 3 tbsp. Partial can uses:Gado Gado peanut sauce, scaled down batch of Thai Satay Peanut sauce (it makes a LOT!)._
6\. Storage \- leftovers keep for 5 days int he fridge. Should freeze fine (haven't tried), just stir carefully when reheating so eggplant doesn't turn into complete mush.
7. Sources - As mentioned, a yearning to recreate New Shakthi Sri Lankan Restaurant's eggplant curry sparked the initial inspiration! We studied _brinjal_ __ (a term for eggplant in India) recipes by South Indian and Sri Lankan food bloggers and YouTubers, including the totally awesome Village Food Factory Youtube channel to create our version.
8\. Nutrition per serving, curry only (no rice).
Nutrition Information:
Calories: 250cal (13%)Carbohydrates: 18g (6%)Protein: 3g (6%)Fat: 21g (32%)Saturated Fat: 16g (100%)Sodium: 1051mg (46%)Potassium: 559mg (16%)Fiber: 7g (29%)Sugar: 8g (9%)Vitamin A: 263IU (5%)Vitamin C: 8mg (10%)Calcium: 62mg (6%)Iron: 3mg (17%)
Keywords: eggplant curry, eggplant recipe, indian curry, vegetarian curry
Did you make this recipe?I love hearing how you went with my recipes! Tag me on Instagram at @RecipeTinEats.
More Eggplant recipes
For fellow carnivores who love how “meaty” eggplant is!
Eggplant Parmigiana
Lentil and Roasted Eggplant Salad
Moussaka (Greek Beef and Eggplant Lasagna)
Incredible BBQ Grilled Vegetables – marinated!
Grilled Eggplant with Yoghurt Sauce
Pasta alla norma (Eggplant pasta)
Oven Roasted Eggplant (aubergine)
Moroccan Baked Eggplant with Beef
More Curry recipes – for fellow curry monsters!
Butter Chicken
Dal (Indian Lentil Curry)
Chicken Tikka Masala
Chickpea Curry with Potato (Chana Aloo Curry)
Rogan Josh
Curries
Life of Dozer
There’s a Dozer under there somewhere… This is how he spent half of Sunday after a big beach play with his mates!
Previous Post
Blueberry Cheesecake
Next Post
Prawn Tacos (Shrimp)
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative!
Read More
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Related Posts
Thai Yellow Curry
Vindaloo
Pakora (Indian Vegetable Fritters)
More Curries __
Reader Interactions
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Cooked this? Rate this recipe! Cooked this? Rate this recipe! 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me via e-mail if anyone answers my comment.
Δ
191 Comments
November 28, 2021 at 8:42 pm
This is really tasty – fantastically rich. However as a vego, the protein content is really low. This usually means for me I’m hungry again really soon after eating! I add 1 cup of red lentils with the water (you need another cup of water if doing this). Some yoghurt on the side also ups the protein content.
Reply
November 29, 2021 at 6:13 pm
Nice tip Aisling! N x
Reply
November 17, 2021 at 12:08 am
I absolutely love this recipe! It’s very easy to follow, and I’ve had consistently delicious results every time I make it. I’m not a huge eggplant fan, but this has become one of my favorite curries!
Reply
November 10, 2021 at 9:21 pm
This is absolutely amazing! So much flavour!
Reply
November 7, 2021 at 3:52 pm
This was delicious! Even the meat eaters devoured it!
Reply
October 30, 2021 at 4:36 pm
As a predominant carnivore, the idea of cooking an eggplant curry didn’t over excite me. 
WELL!! 
This was one of the BEST curries I’ve ever eaten, at home or out. 
I will be doing this again and the calorie factor is a winner. 
Amazing job once again, Nagi !
Reply
October 30, 2021 at 5:22 am
Delicious and quite easy. My wife and I were particularly impressed by the beautiful rich color of the curry. It tastes even better after a couple of days in the fridge. Very nice with toasted pumpkin seeds and almonds sprinkled on top. A good quality vegan yogurt works just fine to make a raita as a side dish. A complete plant-based meal!
Reply
October 28, 2021 at 6:41 am
So well explained and easy to follow. This curry brilliantly captured South Indian flavors. You are an inspiration! Thank you, Nagi!
Reply
Older Comments
Primary Sidebar
Search Recipes...
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative! Read More __
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Meet Dozer
Official taste tester of RecipeTin Eats! Meet Dozer __
As Featured On
What's for Dinner?
Beef Enchiladas 
Butter Chicken 
Chinese Chicken Salad 
Salisbury Steak with Mushroom Gravy 
Vietnamese Coconut Caramel Chicken 
Fast prep. Big flavours!
Never miss a recipe
Back to Top
Search Recipes...
Related
RecipeTin Japan
Food Bloggers Center
Help
Contact Us
Image Use
Privacy Policy & Terms
Site Credits Maintained by Zao Designed by Melissa Rose Design Developed by Once Coupled © RecipeTin Eats 2021 · All Rights Reserved Back to Top
