https://thepounddropper.com/cheesy-sheet-pan-breadsticks/
Skip to Content
Search Magnifying Glass
Search for: Close Search × 
Recipe Index
Fav Products
Amazon Products
Recipe e-Book
Subscribe
Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks
Categories Bread, Dinner, Dough, Holidays, Lunches, Meal Prep, Potluck, Side dishes, Snacks
Click to Share
Pin
Share
Email
Share
2.6K Shares
Jump to Recipe
These Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks are cheesy, buttery, and perfectly seasoned! They are simple to make and are a perfect side dish to any meal!
Makes 16 breadsticks
What ingredients do I need to make these breadsticks?
All-purpose flour- base for the dough. You could also use gluten-free flour, almond, or coconut flour.
Seasoned salt- adds flavor 
Sugar- used to help feed the yeast
Dry active or instant yeast- helps the dough rise and gives these breadsticks the best texture. You can use either one. If you use active yeast- I recommend dissolving the yeast in the 3/4 cup water, lukewarm (110°F – 115°F) and 1/2 tsp sugar first then adding that to the flour and salt. Instant yeast can be mixed right in with the water, flour, salt, and sugar. 
Garlic powder- used for flavor you can use fresh minced garlic if you prefer
Italian seasoning- flavor for the butter spread
Light butter- I use Land o’ Lakes light butter made with canola oil
Shredded reduced fat cheese- I use Velveeta Shreds. Any brand of fat free or reduced fat cheddar cheese would work. 
Parmesan cheese- provides a nice cheesy flavor 
Parsley-for the garnish
What sauce do you recommend dipping these breadsticks in?
We love to dip these breadsticks into my zero point marinara sauce. 
You can click HERE for the recipe!
How do I make these Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks?
In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour, seasoned salt, sugar, and yeast.
Add lukewarm water and mix until dough forms.
Using your hands knead the dough
for about a minute until a dough ball is formed.
Spray a large separate bowl with non stick cooking spray.
Place dough in prepared bowl. And flip over to ensure the top of the dough has a bit of cooking spray on top of it.
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean towel for 1 hour or until dough has doubled.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
Spray a 10 x15 baking sheet with non stick cooking spray. Using a small pastry roller, roll out dough on prepared baking sheet.
This small pastry roller works great for rolling the dough out on the prepared baking pan. Most rolling pins are too large to be able to fit on the baking pan. If that is the case-you can transfer the rolled out dough to the prepared baking sheet after rolling it out on a floured surface. 
This small pastry roller can fee found for under $5 on Amazon HERE.
In a small bowl combine butter, garlic powder and Italian seasoning and heat in microwave until melted.
Whisk until well combined.
Using a basting brush, brush the butter spread on top of dough.
Sprinkle dough with shredded cheese and top with parmesan cheese and parsley.
Bake for 15-17 minutes or until dough has browned and cheese is bubbly.
Using a pizza cutter, cut into 16 breadsticks.
We love to dip these breadsticks into my zero point marinara sauce.
You can click HERE for the recipe!
Wrap the leftover breadsticks with plastic wrap or place in a ziplock bag. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
Ingredients: 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp seasoned salt 
1/2 tsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp dry instant or active yeast
3/4 cup water, lukewarm (110°F – 115°F)
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp Italian seasoning
2 Tbsp light butter- I use Land o’ Lakes light butter made with canola oil
1 cup reduced fat or fat free cheddar cheese, shredded ( I use Velveeta Shreds)
1 Tbsp parmesan cheese
parsley for garnish
Directions:
In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour, seasoned salt, sugar, and yeast. Add lukewarm water. Let it sit for 2-3 minutes then mix until dough forms.
Using your hands knead for one minute and form a ball.
Spray a large separate bowl with non stick cooking spray. Place dough in prepared bowl. And flip over to ensure the top of the dough has a bit of cooking spray on top of it.
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean towel for 1 hour or until dough has doubled.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
Spray a 10 x15 baking sheet with non stick cooking spray. Using a small pastry roller, roll out dough on prepared baking sheet.
In a small bowl combine butter, garlic powder and Italian seasoning and heat in microwave until melted. Whisk until well combined.
Using a basting brush, brush the butter spread over the top of the dough.
Sprinkle dough with shredded cheese then top with parmesan cheese and parsley.
Bake for 15-17 minutes or until dough has browned and cheese is bubbly.
Remove from oven and let them cool for about 2 minutes.
Using a pizza cutter, cut into 16 breadsticks.
Wrap the leftover breadsticks with plastic wrap or place in a ziplock bag. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
Makes 16 breadsticks
2 PersonalPoints™ for 1 breadstick or 5 PersonalPoints for 2 breadsticks
How do I know how many points this is on my WW individualized plan?
Click the link below to go to the recipe builder. You’ll first need to sign into your WW account and then the recipe builder will upload. Be sure to edit the recipe with any ingredients that you use that are different. The recipe builder is the most accurate way to create, obtain, and track the Personal Points on your individualized plan. 
CLICK FOR WW PERSONAL POINTS 
The recipe builder link only works for WW members located in the United States. If you are located outside of the United States, you’ll need to access the WW app manually to create the recipe in the recipe builder. 
Continue to Content
Yield: 16
Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks
Print 
These Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks are cheesy, buttery, and perfectly seasoned! They are simple to make and are a perfect side dish to any meal!
Author: thepounddropper.com
Prep Time 10 minutes
Cook Time 15 minutes
Additional Time 1 hour
Total Time 1 hour 25 minutes
Ingredients
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tsp seasoned salt 
1/2 tsp sugar 
1 1/2 tsp dry instant or active yeast 
3/4 cup water, lukewarm (110°F – 115°F) 
1 tsp garlic powder 
1 tsp Italian seasoning 
2 Tbsp light butter ( I use Land o’ Lakes light butter made with canola oil ) 
1 cup reduced fat cheese, shredded ( I use Velveeta Shreds) 
1 Tbsp parmesan cheese 
parsley for garnish 
Instructions
1. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour, seasoned salt, sugar, and yeast. Add lukewarm water. Let it sit for 2-3 minutes then mix until dough forms. 
2. Using your hands knead for one minute and form a ball.
3. Spray a large separate bowl with non stick cooking spray. Place dough in prepared bowl. And flip over to ensure the top of the dough has a bit of cooking spray on top of it.
4. Cover with plastic wrap or a clean towel for 1 hour or until dough has doubled. 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
5. Spray a 10 x15 baking sheet with non stick cooking spray. Using a small pastry roller, roll out dough on prepared baking sheet.
6. In a small bowl combine butter, garlic powder and Italian seasoning and heat in microwave until melted. Whisk until well combined.
7. Using a basting brush, brush the butter spread over the top of the dough.
8. Sprinkle dough with shredded cheese then top with parmesan cheese and parsley.
9. Bake for 15-17 minutes or until dough has browned and cheese is bubbly.
10. Remove from oven and let them cool for about 2 minutes.
11. Using a pizza cutter, cut into 16 breadsticks.
12. Wrap the leftover breadsticks with plastic wrap or place in a ziplock bag. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. 
Makes 16 breadsticks 
2 PersonalPoints™ for 1 breadstick or 5 PersonalPoints for 2 breadsticks
Notes
Smartpoints: GREEN/BLUE/ PURPLE: 2 Smartpoints per breadstick
Recommended Products
As an Amazon Associate and member of other affiliate programs, I earn from qualifying purchases. 
CLICK FOR WW PERSONAL POINTS 
Basting Brush Silicone Pastry Baking Brush 
Saf Instant Yeast
Saf Instant Yeast 
McCormick Perfect Pinch Italian Seasoning, 2.25 OZ 
Gold Medal All Purpose Flour, 10 lbs. (pack of 2) 
Norpro Wood Pastry/Pizza Roller 
Nonstick Cookie Sheet / Baking Sheet - 10 Inch x 15 Inch, Copper Brown
Nonstick Cookie Sheet / Baking Sheet - 10 Inch x 15 Inch, Copper Brown 
Nutrition Information
Yield
16 
Amount Per Serving_ Calories 78Total Fat 2gCholesterol 4mgSodium 220mgCarbohydrates 12gNet Carbohydrates 11gFiber 1gSugar 1gProtein 3g
Pound Dropper
Cuisine: Italian / Category: Bread
By Author Lindsay Kehl
Posted on Last updated: November 18, 2021
Categories Bread, Dinner, Dough, Holidays, Lunches, Meal Prep, Potluck, Side dishes, Snacks
Click to Share
Pin
Share
Email
Share
2.6K Shares
Post navigation
Skinny Mexican Street Tacos
Frozen Yogurt Bark with Fruit
Click here to cancel reply.
Janelle
Wednesday 14th of April 2021
While making these bread sticks I was wary that they could be so good. But they came out and were loved by everyone at the table.
Sandra
Thursday 3rd of September 2020
Can u use gold metal self rising flour instead?
Lindsay Kehl
Thursday 3rd of September 2020
Yes, you could use Gold Medal self rising flour in place of the all purpose flour-Keep in mind the self rising flour does have active yeast in it-so just use 1 tsp of yeast with the water- and you may want to omit the seasoned salt since the self rising flour is pre-salted. 
Thanks so much!
Sarah
Friday 7th of August 2020
These were good! I ate way too many. Thanks for the recipe!
Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks | Onlinegranny's Shared Recipes
Monday 13th of July 2020
Source: Cheesy Sheet Pan Breadsticks […]
Hi, I’m Linds. I love creating healthy WW recipes. I have a passion in turning everyday meals into healthy alternatives. 
Discover, Explore and Enjoy! 
Read more about me.
Subscribe to The Pound Dropper
Join our mailing list to receive the latest recipes and updates from The Pound Dropper!
SUBSCRIBE!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
Join Today! No SPAM ever, just great recipes!
Search for a Recipe
Search for:
New Recipe Ebook On Sale Now!
Categories
Categories Select Category Air Fryer Appetizers Bagels Bars Beans Beef Biscuits Boards Bread Breakfast Brownies Brunch Cake Casseroles Cauliflower Cheesecake Cheesecakes Chicken Chinese Food Cookies Copycat Recipes Crisps Crust Cupcakes Desserts Devotion Dinner Dip Donuts Dough Dressing Drinks Eggs Enchiladas Fast Food Fast Food Options Fish Fruit Fudge Gluten Free Greek Yogurt Ground turkey Gyro Ham Holidays Indian Instant Pot Korean Low Carb Lunches Meal Prep Mexican Food Muffins No Bake Nuts Oats One Point One Pot Meal Pancakes Pasta Peanut Butter Pies Pizza Pork Potatoes Potluck Products Protein Pumpkin Quiche Rice Salad Sandwich Sauce Seafood Shakes Sheet Pan Shrimp Side dishes Skillet Slow Cooker Smoothie Bowl Snacks Soups Spreads StepBet Stove Top Travel Snack Ideas Turkey Two Ingredient Dough Uncategorized Vegetables Vegetarian Videos Waffles Weekly Meal Plan Whole 30 Wontons Workouts Wrap WW program Zero Point Recipes
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Follow
Subscribe to Newsletter
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Browse
Recipe Index
Shop Amazon Favorites
Shop Favorite Products
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Copyright © 2021 - Pound Dropper
Skip to Recipe
