https://bakingupmemories.com/instant-pot-twix-cheesecake/
Skip to main content
Baking Up Memories
Home
Desserts
Cheesecakes
Instant Pot
Cakes
Cookies
Cupcakes
Contact
Privacy Policy
ABOUT ME
Search
July 30, 2021
Recipes
Instant Pot Twix Cheesecake
Share and Save 
This _Instant Pot Twix Cheesecake_ is inspired by one of my all time favorite candy bars! A creamy cheesecake topped with a layer of caramel, chocolate ganache, and Twix pieces! This cheesecake will be gone in minutes! 
This post and recipe was created for_SummerDessertWeek _! I was sent samples by some of the sponsor companies but as always opinions are 100% mine._
Sponsored items used in this recipe were provided by Dixie Crystals!
Make sure you scroll to the end to enter our SummerDessertWeek giveaway!!
TIPS TO MAKE A PERFECT INSTANT POT TWIX CHEESECAKE
1\. Make sure your cream cheese is at room temperature before beginning. This is an important step to make sure your cheesecake is a good consistency. Also, cream your cream cheese for 5-6 minutes before adding any ingredients to it. This keeps you from overmixing.
2.You want to make sure that you wrap the entire springform pan in aluminum foil. This will help keep the moisture out of the springform and away from the crust.
3\. Bake your crust before you add in the filling. This will help get that crunch in your crust. If you prefer a softer crust, skip this part.
4\. DO NOT OVER MIX THE EGGS. When you add in the eggs mix JUST until the yolk disappears into the batter and stop.
LAYERING THE TOPPINGS 
I really wanted this cheesecake to have the layered look, just like the Twix candy. I knew it would be a little difficult to get the caramel to stay in a nice layer and not squish out the sides as soon as I cut it. 
After the cheesecake is completely set. I layered on the caramel sauce and refrigerated the cake for an additional 30 minutes to 1 hour to allow the caramel to harden a bit. NOTE: I used store bough Dulce de leche. You can use your own caramel recipe but it may ooze out the sides when cut, but that is ok!
After the caramel was nice and set, I poured the chocolate ganache over that, and placed it back in the refrigerator for another 30 minutes to 1 hour.
PRO TIP: To get the perfect slice, take a large knife, and CAREFULLY warm it up using a kitchen torch. You can also run it under hot water for 2-3 minutes, but I found that warming up with a torch worked a lot better with this recipe.
Make your first cut into the cheesecake. Run the knife under water to clean, wipe off the excess water, repeat and make your second cut.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
Q: CAN I MAKE THIS CHEESECAKE IN A 6 INCH SPRINGFORM?
A : Yes, you can make this cheesecake in a 6 inch pan. Follow the directions as written, but add about 10 minutes on to the cook time.
If you need a springform pan, I HIGHLY recommend THIS ONE. It is the perfect size and works so well with the Instant Pot.
Q: WHAT SIZE INSTANT POT DO I NEED?
A : I use a 6 quart Instant Pot Duo– this one works perfect for me and my family of four 
Q: MY CHEESECAKE LOOKS UNDERCOOKED! WHAT DID I DO WRONG?
A: This is perfectly normal. When you remove the cheesecake from the Instant Pot it will look a little undercooked. Let it set up overnight in the fridge and it will be perfect!
Do not cook any longer or you will over cook it, and it will be dry and crumbly when you cut into it the next day.
EQUIPMENT USED 
IF YOU LOVED THIS INSTANT POT TWIX CHEESECAKE AS MUCH AS I DO, MAKE SURE YOU SHARE IT WITH YOUR FRIENDS ON FACEBOOK AND PINTEREST SO THEY CAN MAKE IT TOO!
Check out the amazing SummerDessertWeek recipes from our bloggers today!
Strawberry Banana Cheesecake Salad from Big Bear’s Wife 
Copycat Orange Julius from Semi Homemade Recipes 
No Bake Raspberry Cheesecake from Eat Move Make 
Birthday Crumb Cake from It’s Shanaka 
Strawberry Cheesecake Poke Cake from Fake Ginger 
Blueberry Muffin Cake from Blogghetti 
Lemon Cheesecake Mousse from 4 Sons ‘R’ Us 
No Churn Mint Chocolate Ice Cream from Cindy’s Recipes and Writings 
Strawberry Unicorn Puppy Chow from For the Love of Food 
Brown Sugar Layer Cake with Peach Filling from Hezzi-D’s Books and Cooks 
Smore’s Ice Cream Torte from Family Around the Table 
Strawberry Basil Cupcakes from Sweet Beginnings 
Oreo Ice Cream Cake from Jolene’s Recipe Journal 
Donut Bread Pudding from Savory Experiments 
Flourless Chocolate Cake from Devour Dinner 
Rhubarb Crumble from Shockingly Delicious 
Japanese Strawberry Shortcake from SugarYums 
Raspberry Cream Pie from Cheese Curd In Paradise 
Instant Pot Twix Cheesecake from Baking up Memories 
Lavender Honey Cake from Food Hunter’s Guide to Cuisine 
Pineapple Upside Down Cake Dip from Sweet ReciPEAs 
No Bake Key Lime Cheesecake from Comfortably Domestic 
Peach Berry Eton Mess from Cookaholic Wife
Instant Pot Twix Cheesecake
A creamy cheesecake topped with a layer of caramel, chocolate ganache, and Twix pieces!
5 from 4 votes
Print Recipe Pin Recipe
Prep Time 10 mins
Cook Time 50 mins
Set Time 6 hrs
Total Time 7 hrs
Course Dessert
Cuisine American
Servings 8 servings
Equipment
7 inch spring form pan
Food Processor
Ingredients
Crust
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
6 Tablespoons butter melted
Filling
3 8 oz. packages cream cheese Room temperature- I recommend using a name brand such as Philadelphia
1/2 cup Dixie Crystals granulated sugar
2 Tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
2 eggs
Topping:
1 can Dulce de Leche
4 oz. chocolate roughly chopped
1/4 cup heavy whipping cream
Whipped cream
Mini Twix candy halved
Instructions
Crust
Preheat your oven to 350 degrees/F.
Add graham crackers to a food processor until you get about 1 1/2 cups of crumbs. Add in the melted butter and pulse until combined.
Pour into the bottom of a greased 7″ springform pan and use your hand or the back of a spoon to press and form a crust bringing the crumbs up about 1 inch on the sides.
Bake the crust for 10 minutes or until golden. Remove and cool on a wire rack.
Filling
In the bowl of a stand mixer (or use a hand mixer) with a paddle attachment, cream the cream cheese for 3-4 minutes or until completely smooth and there are no lumps.
Slowly pour in the sugar and flour and mix until just combined.
Add vanilla and heavy cream. Mix on low speed until combined. Slowly increase the speed to high for about 1 minute,
Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl and make sure there are no lumps. Give one final mix before adding the eggs.
Add the eggs one at a time and mix just until the yolk disappears into the batter.
Pour the batter into the prepared crust and gently tap the bottom of the pan on the counter to release any air bubbles.
Cover the pan completely with aluminum foil. Add one cup of water into the inner pot of your Instant Pot and add in the trivet,
Place the cheesecake on top of the trivet and set your pot to high pressure for 40 minutes and allow to naturally release.
Once you can open the pot, remove the cheesecake and allow to cool to room temperature on a wire rack.
Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator to set for at least 6 hours but overnight is recommended.
Topping:
Once the cheesecake is set. Pour the Dulce de Leche over the top of the cheesecake while it is still in the springform pan. Smooth into an even layer.
Place the cheesecake back in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Once the caramel starts to harden, add the heavy cream and chocolate into a microwave safe bowl and heat on 30 second increments, stirring in between, until melted and smooth.
Allow the chocolate to cool for 4-5 minutes then pour over the caramel layer and smooth.
Top with swirls of whipped cream and mini Twix candy and serve.
Keep any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days
Keyword Cheesecake recipes, Instant Pot Cheesecakes, Twix Cheesecake
Welcome to this year’s SummerDessertWeek event hosted by Angie from Big Bear’s Wife. You’re going to be in for a treat this year because we have 28 blogs/bloggers creating summer themed dessert recipes all week! We’re sharing them with the hashtag SummerDessertWeek on social media and you’ll find some of the links in this post as well. Plus, we also have some great giveaways for you this week thanks to our amazing sponsors!
Scroll down to take a look!
PRIZE 1
Prize 1 —Dixie Crystals is giving away 1 (one) 4.2 Quart (4 Liter) Electric Air Fryer
PRIZE 2
Prize 2 — Circulon is giving away a TOTAL BAKEWARE 6-Piece Nonstick Bakeware Set – Two 9-Inch Round Cake Pans, 9-Inch Square Cake Pan, 9-Inch x 5-Inch Loaf Pan, 9-Inch x 13-Inch Rectangular Cake Pan, 10-Inch x 15-Inch Cookie Pan
a Rafflecopter giveaway 
Giveaway open to US Residents 18 years or older.. All entries will be verified. No PO Boxes Please. Prizes will be sent directly from sponsors to winners, bloggers are not responsible for prizes. This giveaway runs from July 26th until July 31st at 11:59PMEST. Winners will be selected soon afterwards and contacted by e-mail. Winners will have 48 hours to respond or a new winner will be chosen. There are a total of 2 (two) prizes and therefore we will have a total of 2 (two) winners. No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited by law._
Disclaimer: These posts and recipes are part of the week long event, SummerDessertWeek but all opinions are 100% mine! We would like Thank our amazing sponsors: Dixie Crystals and Circulon. These wonderful sponsors provided the prize packs for our giveaways and also sent samples and products to the SummerDessertWeek bloggers to use in their recipes.
Share and Save 
Previous PostInstant Pot Strawberry Crunch Cheesecake
Next PostInstant Pot Pumpkin Cheesecake
Written By
Brittany
Lisa Kerhin
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 4:11 pm
Twix flavors! Love it!
Julie
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 4:48 pm
I love the flavors of this recipe! Chocolate and caramel is such a good combo!
Hezzi-D
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 8:38 pm
Ok this looks incredible. I’m making this as soon as I can!
Cindy
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 9:04 pm
Love the layers! Thanks for the tips to make it perfect!
Dorothy Reinhold
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 11:53 pm
The IP makes the perfect cheesecakes. Love the twix flavors. So good!
Rebecca
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 11:53 pm
This Instant Pot Twix Cheesecake6 was a winner at my house! Everyone ate it up so fast there were no leftovers. And that chocolate ganache topping, mmmm, so perfect!
Rebecca Sannes
Reply
July 31, 2021 at 1:59 pm
This looks amazing! Can’t wait to try it!
Kirsten/ComfortablyDomestic
Reply
July 31, 2021 at 8:38 pm
Distinct layers – achieved! Nice job. These are some of my favorite flavors, so I really love that it can be done in the Instant Pot. How fun!
Brittany
Reply
July 31, 2021 at 8:50 pm
That was my main goal with this cheesecake and I think It turned out great! Thank you so much for the comment 😊
Jolen
Reply
August 1, 2021 at 8:09 am
My guys bought me an Instant Pot for Christmas and it’s still in the box, I definitely need to get it out of there and try this!
Jessica Formicola
Reply
August 1, 2021 at 3:47 pm
I LOVE Twix! The chocolate and caramel combo is always a winner!
Leave a Reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
RECIPES I AM LOVING!
Ferrero Rocher Cake
Easy Butterscotch Cake
Strawberry Cheesecake Cookies
17 Amazing Instant Pot Cheesecake Recipes
Easy Christmas Cookie Recipes
Trending Now!
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. All photography and written text on this site are Copyright of Baking Up Memoires © 2021, unless otherwise noted, material may not be duplicated, published or re-written without permission. All rights reserved. Please send all inquiries to [email protected] for all legalities, please see our Privacy and Disclosure for more details. Copyright 2021 Baking Up Memories . 
Designed by VineThemes 
