https://liliesloveandluna.com/soft-peanut-butter-and-pumpkin-dog-treats/
Skip to content
Menu Menu
About
Contact
Dog Care
Dog Crafts
Dog Training
Dog Treats
Favorite Products
Soft Peanut Butter and Pumpkin Dog Treats
20 Comments / Dog Treats / By Shannon / April 13, 2019 January 30, 2022
Sharing is caring! 
Share
Pin
If your dog is like either of mine, they love treats. And the variety of treats at the store is endless. The only problem is that it is difficult to find a soft treat that is easily breakable to use as a training treat.
This post may contain affiliate links. That means if you click on them and buy something, I may receive a small commission at no cost to you. Read myDisclaimer Policy to learn more._
Pin For Later! 
I try to give very small pieces of treats when I’m training my dogs. And Luna needs a lot of training still. She listens alright inside, but outside is not so good. At times it seems like she has no training at all.
Since Luna needs a lot of outdoor training, I want a treat that I won’t mind carrying around for more than a couple of minutes. And one that I don’t care if I wipe my hands on my pants after Luna slobbers all over my hands to get the treat.
I tried looking on Pinterest for dog treat ideas that would work but wasn’t a fan of any of them. Most made harder treats than I want. A few made softer treats but included unnecessary ingredients. 
Others only used a partial can of the main ingredient and weren’t easy to increase due to the amount left in the can. So, I decided to make my own recipe. 
My taste testers approved of the dough before baking. I’d post a picture, but they gobbled it up faster than I could take a picture. They also enjoyed the treats after baking. 
Along with the ease of using these treats for training, they contain pumpkin which has several health benefits for dogs. You can read this post about the benefits of pumpkin for dogs.
How to make Soft Peanut Butter and Pumpkin Dog Treats
Always consult your veterinarian before giving your dog new foods._
Thankfully these are super easy to make. There are only 3 ingredients and you should be able to find them at any grocery or big box store.
Gather your ingredients, a 15 ounce can of pumpkin puree (not pumpkin pie filling), whole wheat flour, and peanut butter. Make sure the peanut butter you are using doesn’t contain xylitol which is toxic to dogs.
Empty the whole can of pumpkin into a bowl. Then measure out 1 cup of peanut butter and put that in the bowl. It may be easier to mix these two ingredients together before adding the flour. 
I didn’t do this and found that I had streaks of peanut butter in the dough once I was done mixing. Not that my dogs will complain about finding plain peanut butter in their treats.
Next mix in the 2 cups of whole wheat flour. The dough will end up the consistency of play dough. 
Once it’s all mixed together it’s time to roll it out. The dough did not seem like it would roll out good with a rolling pin, so I just rolled it with my hands. 
Just take a small portion, roll it into a ball and then squish it a little with your thumb. Try to make them fairly thin, but not super thin. Most of mine ended up a little thinner than a quarter inch. Then place on a baking sheet so they aren’t touching.
I baked mine for 10 minutes at 350°F. I wanted them still soft after baking. Once they cooled I placed them into zipper baggies and then put them in the fridge. 
They should last about 5 days in the fridge. If you want to leave them at room temperature, they should last about 2 days. 
This recipe makes a fairly large batch, so I tried to use only a quarter of the dough. I divided the rest of it into 3 relatively even sections to freeze. I placed them into individual freezer bags and will thaw one at a time as I need more treats.
To use the frozen dough you just need to thaw it and then bake until done. The only thing I didn’t like about freezing the dough is that the texture changed. 
I don’t know if I left it in the freezer too long (it got pushed to the back) or if it would have changed regardless of how long it was frozen. 
Once I baked it the texture seemed fine, though the coloring was a little different. My dogs didn’t seem to care though. 
I also froze some treats after baking and those seemed to not change as much as the frozen dough.
Luna and Morgan both loved these and tried to beg for more. Hopefully, they will be enticing enough to get Luna to listen while we work on our training outside. They work inside but there are fewer distractions inside than there are outside.
If your dogs enjoyed these as much as mine, they may also like these No-bake peanut butter and pumpkin dog treats. 
Soft Peanut Butter and Pumpkin Dog Treats 
Print 
These soft treats are great for training your dog.
Prep Time 10 minutes
Cook Time 10 minutes
Total Time 20 minutes
Ingredients
1 15oz. can of Pumpkin Puree (not Pumpkin Pie Filling) 
1 cup Peanut Butter (any brand, no xylitol) 
2 cups Whole Wheat Flour 
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350°F. 
2. Mix pumpkin puree and peanut butter 
together until combined.
3. Add in the flour. Mix well. 
4. Roll a small amount of dough into a 
small ball. Press down with your thumb to flatten into a tiny cookie shape. 
5. Place on a baking sheet. Repeat 
until the sheet is as full as you want it. 
6. Bake 10 minutes for soft dog treats.
7. Let cool. Store in an airtight container, 2 days at room temperature or 5 days refrigerated.
Notes
Extra dough can be frozen for later use. It may change in texture and color.
Shannon
Post navigation
Previous Post
Next Post →
20 thoughts on “Soft Peanut Butter and Pumpkin Dog Treats” 
Kim v
February 6, 2022 at 5:53 pm
Made these today and they’re so incredibly easy and delicious!
Reply
Stella
November 18, 2021 at 11:07 pm
How many does this make?
Reply
Shannon
November 21, 2021 at 9:06 am
It varies based on how big you make the treats. It is a fairly large recipe for just 1 or 2 dogs, I had to freeze most of them to make them last long enough for my dogs to eat them.
Reply
Sharon Delaney
January 28, 2022 at 2:42 pm
Has anyone ever tried coconut flour? My little girl is allergic to the wheat flour. I’ve been looking for soft treat recipes. She has no teeth.
Reply
Karyn
September 25, 2021 at 6:41 pm
Can you use gluten free flour?
Reply
Shannon
September 26, 2021 at 12:57 pm
I don’t know if gluten-free flour would work or not, I’ve never used it before.
Reply
Ben
September 12, 2021 at 2:30 pm
They are only good for 5 days?
Reply
Shannon
September 14, 2021 at 2:24 pm
They don’t last very long due to being soft baked and not having any preservatives. If you bake them a little longer they should last a few days more, especially in the fridge, but they still won’t last much more than a week unless they are frozen.
Reply
Carmen Rivera
July 28, 2021 at 3:55 pm
I been wanting to bake soft cookies for by fur babies, so tried this recipe. I made them in forms of small balls. But I baked them for half hr instead of 25 minutes. As to me, they were still too soft. They came out perfect! My babies love them!
Reply
Abby
February 22, 2021 at 5:54 pm
Love this recipe! I have a senior with some teeth missing. This is my second time making these. First time turned out great, but my dog loves bacon grease. This time I did 1/3 cup peanut butter and 1/3 cup bacon grease. Then I used about an extra 1/8 cup of flour. They turned out great!
Reply
Dbbie
February 18, 2021 at 3:32 pm
Can I use regular flour? I do not have wholewheat flour.
Reply
Shannon
February 20, 2021 at 2:14 pm
Regular flour should be fine to use it just isn’t as nutritious as whole wheat flour.
Reply
Nicki
April 14, 2021 at 7:45 am
What about almond flour? Would that work?
Reply
Patricia Harsha
October 24, 2020 at 8:35 am
I started out using this recipe, but also using 1 egg per 1/2 cup of peanut butter, and cutting them with my dog bone cutter. This took a long time. I decided my dog didn’t care what shape his treats were, so I rolled out the dough in a large recatngle and, using a pizza cutter, cut it in small squares.Instead of putting each square on the cookie sheet (which also takes a long time) I just rolled the dough out on parchment paper, didn’t separate the cookies – just slid the whole sheet onto the cookie sheet and baked at 350 for 50 min. Then let sit in the oven with it off til they cool. The cookies will easily break into squares at this point. Saves a lot of time! I also tweaked this recipe by adding apples, craisins, blueberries or whatever dog friendly fruit I may have at the time.
Reply
Barb
December 5, 2020 at 6:56 am
Patricia Harsha, “50” MINUTES? SURE THATS NOT A MISPRINT? They sound good & easy although there are “3” size cans of pumpkin.
Reply
Kate
December 19, 2020 at 1:59 pm
I’m thinking 15 minutes. I want to cut mine with a dog bone cookie cutter so I’ll try this recipe with the egg and let you know how it turns out.
Reply
Annette
May 23, 2021 at 8:47 am
I have made these several times for my pups and even baked them all up front and froze in treat size instead of the dough balls. I use my apple corer that makes the perfect sized round treats, then tear in half when training them. They can’t get enough of these things!!
Reply
Gail
March 19, 2021 at 11:38 am
That is a fab way to do these. I will try this. Thanks.
Reply
Rosemarie Mufferi
November 8, 2019 at 1:55 pm
Well I’m trying out the soft frets! I will send pictures asap! Thanks!
Reply
Carol Kershner
July 8, 2020 at 12:11 am
I will be trying these on my dog who loves peanut butter and pumkin.
Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Type here..
Name
Email
Website
Recent Posts
Watermelon and Yogurt Frozen Dog Treats
Why Do Dogs Tip Their Food Bowl Over?
Can Dogs Eat Fruit Snacks?
Bark Bright: Is It Worth It?
Benefits of Lick Mats for Dogs
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
As a Chewy affiliate I earn commissions for qualifying purchases.
Privacy Policy
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Disclaimer Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 - 2022 Lilies, Love, and Luna | Powered by Astra WordPress Theme
Skip to Recipe
