https://www.pressurecookrecipes.com/pressure-cooker-beef-curry-japanese/
Subscribe to Amy + Jacky
Recipes
50 Easy Instant Pot Recipes
29 Best Instant Pot Recipes
10+ Foolproof Instant Pot Rice Recipes
Categories
Chicken
Beef
Pork
Vegetarian
Bean
Desserts
Soup
Side Dishes
One Pot Meals
Videos
Tips
Instant Pot Beginners Guide
Amy + Jacky’s Story
Instant Pot Accessories
6 Instant Pot Steamer Basket Best Sellers
Search
Reading
Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry
Share __Tweet
Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry
Step By Step Recipe Subscribe
4.97 from 82 votes
By Amy + Jacky·October 21, 2016
Intermediate . 2 hrs 20 mins . Japanese 
Please share & enjoy our recipe
14.2Kshares
Share
Pin
Email
Sub
SUBSCRIBE FOR TRUSTED RECIPES + TIPS
Tried & True Recipes Delivered To Your Inbox Weekly. 100% Free!
SUBSCRIBE
Please Check Email
Please check your inbox (sometimes Junk Box) and confirm your subscription! Then, add our email address to your contact list to ensure you will receive our recipes, tips, and giveaways!
If you’re a fan of Japanese Curry, you MUST make this Instant Pot Japanese Beef Curry (Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry)!
Check out Our Handpicked Instant Pot Accessories
Japanese curry is my love at first bite. It’s one of a kind.
Rich, thick, deep, complex flavors of sweet, savory, spicy.
It’s super addictive!
7 months in the making! Recreated one of Tokyo’s most highly rated Japanese Curry Beef Stew with simple everyday ingredients.
Eat this & live with no regrets.
If you have never tried a delicious Japanese Curry, you’re really missing out.
Japanese curry was a definite Must on our To Eat List in our last trip to Japan.
After spending the whole morning (since 3 am!!) in Tsukiji Fish Market 築地市場, we walked over to the Ginza district.
We took this shot in Ginza (銀座) Tokyo, Japan – some say, it’s one of the most luxurious shopping districts in the world.
You can find numerous internationally renowned luxury brands & restaurants plant their flagship buildings & stores here. Including the Michelin 3-star Sukiyabashi Jiro. You may have heard of him from the 2011 documentary _Jiro Dreams of Sushi_.
You really gotta hold on tight to your wallet when you’re in Ginza! 😛
Our bellies were still semi-full from our bucket-list Sushi Breakfast.
But my mind was locked on Baked Japanese Beef Curry from this restaurant in Ginza.
They serve one of Tokyo’s most highly rated Japanese Curry Beef Stew.
Right before their lunch service was over, we ran and found it hidden on a quiet street.
We anxiously walked down a narrow stairway to the basement.
Not exactly sure if it was the right place, or if they were still opened. I was hesitant to open the door.
But the thought of Japanese curry gave me courage to turn the door knob.
When I was greeted by a warm smile and a funky menu, Jacky & I exchanged a smile and knew we were in the right place.
This piping hot Baked Japanese Beef Curry topped with melted cheese is what we’ve been waiting for!
Look at the _luxuriously_ rich curry. Each mouthful was boldly sweet, savory, and oh-super spicy!!
After the meal, we bought home a bunch of Japanese curry roux.
Ready for our ambitious attempt to recreate this delicious Japanese Beef Curry.
We tried almost all the top store-bought Japanese curry roux. Sadly, they didn’t even come close.
But, wait!
We finally discovered the Secret Ingredient.
By adding excessive amount of our secret ingredient, the flavor profile is bang-on with slightly even more body compared to the restaurant version. YES!! 😀
You’ll Enjoy this Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry Because:
Indescribable explosion of flavors – intensive depth & balanced savory, sweet, spicy & umami flavors
Super addictive rich & thick curry sauce full of body, texture & aroma (I couldn’t resist licking the wooden spoon AND silicone spatula 😛 )
Tender & moist meat full of beefy flavors
Melted cheese adds extra creaminess & texture
All of the above, yet made with simple everyday ingredients
I wish you could smell and taste from your screen, so you know what I mean!!
Ok, there’s a catch:
This recipe requires Time and Love.
But, once you’ve tasted it, there’s no turning back. Everything was worth it.
SUBSCRIBE FOR TRUSTED RECIPES + TIPS
100% Free! Tried & True Recipes Delivered To Your Inbox Weekly. 
SUBSCRIBE
Please Check Your Email
Please check your inbox (sometimes Junk Box) and confirm your subscription! Then, add our email address to your contact list to ensure you will receive our recipes, tips, and giveaways!
Tips for Intsant Pot Japanese Beef Curry
1\. Behold, the Secret Ingredient!
This sweet & savory Caramelized Onion Puree is _a blend of heaven_.
Onion naturally pairs well with beef. And this Caramelized Onion Puree pairs _extremely well_ with Japanese curry.
2\. Can I Use Other Beef Cuts for This Pressure Cooker Beef Curry Recipe? 
Chuck roast is one of the most suitable cuts for pressure cookers. For optimal result, choose one that is well marbled!
3\. Why Brown the Chuck Steak as a Whole First Before Cutting it Up? 
Browning the chuck steak as a whole retains more moisture due to less surface area.
Chuck steak also browns faster and better compare to cubed stew, because maillard reaction excels in dry and high heat environment.
4\. Why Add Baking Soda to The Onions? 
This idea is actually from J. Kenji López-Alt (his cookbook is a masterpiece). Baking soda raises the pH and speeds up the rate of maillard reaction.
In simple terms: baking soda helps onions caramelize faster.
5\. Can I Add Vegetables (such as Carrots & Potatoes) to This Japanese Curry Beef Stew? 
Yes, carrots and potatoes are quite common in Japanese curry. Adding carrots increases the sweetness level of the overall flavor profile.
I recommend cooking this recipe once without any adjustments to see how you like it first.
6\. Optional Step: Baking with Cheese
Baking this Japanese pressure cooker beef curry topped with cheese is optional.
We couldn’t resist and indulged in a couple of bites before we put it into the oven. Boy, it was delicious!
But wait, if you could hold back your urge just a teeny bit more…
THIS will be your reward…
Print
4.97 from 82 votes
Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry
Author: Amy + Jacky
MUST TRY! Pressure Cooker Japanese Beef Curry Recipe! 7 months in the making to recreate one of Tokyo’s most highly rated Japanese Curry Beef Stew using simple everyday ingredients. Eat this and live with no regrets.
Subscribe for Free Recipes& Tips
SUBSCRIBE FOR TRUSTED RECIPES + TIPS
Tried & True Recipes Delivered To Your Inbox Weekly. 100% Free!
SUBSCRIBE
Please Check Email
Please check your inbox (sometimes Junk Box) and confirm your subscription! Then, add our email address to your contact list to ensure you will receive our recipes, tips, and giveaways!
Servings 4 \- 6
Total Time 2 hrs 20 mins
Rate this Recipe
Ingredients
2 pounds (937g) chuck steak (blade steak) , 1.5 inch in thickness
6 medium garlic cloves , chopped
¾ cup (190ml) unsalted chicken stock
2 - 3 (74g – 110g) Japanese curry roux cube or homemade Japanese curry roux
1 tablespoon (15ml) Japanese soy sauce
Caramelized Onion Purée
1.5 pound (680g) yellow onions and shallots , thinly sliced
3 tablespoons (45g) unsalted butter
⅓ teaspoon (1.3g) baking soda
Kosher salt and ground black pepper to taste
Equipment
Instant Pot Pressure Cooker
Share this Recipe so We can create more yummy recipes for you. Thank you 🙂
14.2Kshares
Share
Pin
Instructions 
Prepare Pressure Cooker: Heat up your pressure cooker (Instant Pot: press Sauté button) over medium heat. Ensure your pot is as hot as it can be (Instant Pot: wait until indicator says HOT).
Pressure Cook Caramelized Onion Purée: Melt 3 tbsp (45g) unsalted butter in pressure cooker. Add in sliced onions, shallots, ⅓ tsp (1.3g) baking soda. Sauté until moisture starts to come out of the onions (~5 mins). Close lid and pressure cook at High Pressure for 20 minutes, then Quick Release. Open lid.
Reduce until Caramelized (takes roughly 16 – 17 mins): There will be lots of moisture from the onions. Reduce until most moisture has evaporated over medium high heat (Instant Pot: press cancel, Sauté button and Adjust once to Sauté More function). Stir constantly with a silicone spatula. Once most moisture has evaporated, adjust to medium heat (Instant Pot: press cancel and Sauté). Stir until onions are deep golden brown and all moisture has evaporated. Season with kosher salt & ground black pepper to taste. Remove caramelized onion purée and set aside.
Brown Chuck Steak: Adjust to medium high heat (Instant Pot: press cancel, Sauté button and Adjust once to Sauté More function. Wait until indicator says HOT). Lightly season chuck steak with kosher salt & black pepper. Add 1 tbsp (15ml) of olive oil in the pot. Ensure to coat oil over whole bottom of the pot. Add seasoned chuck roast in the pot. Brown for 6 – 8 mins on each side without flipping. Remove and set aside on a chopping board.
Sauté Garlic: Add in chopped garlic and stir until fragrant (about 30 secs).
Deglaze: Pour in roughly ½ cup (100 ml) of unsalted chicken stock and completely deglaze the pot by scrubbing all flavorful brown bits with a wooden spoon.
Pressure Cook Chuck Roast: Cut chuck steak into 1.5 – 2 inches stew cubes, and place them along with its meat juice back to the pot. Add remaining unsalted chicken stock, 1 tbsp (15ml) Japanese soy sauce and caramelized onion purée. Mix well. Close lid and pressure cook at High Pressure for 32 minutes + 10 minutes Natural Release. Release remaining pressure. Open lid.
Make Japanese Curry: Taste the caramelized onion beef stew. Mix in the Japanese curry roux cubes one by one while tasting for the right balance of flavors. Taste and add more curry roux or Japanese soy sauce if necessary. We used roughly 2.5 (95g) Japanese curry roux.
Serve: Serve over Calrose rice. We sprinkled some mozzarella cheese on top and baked it in the oven until the cheese melted and browned. Just like how the restaurant served it.
Take a photo & Enjoy: Pat yourself on the back! One of Tokyo’s most highly rated Japanese curry beef stew dishes is recreated in front of your eyes. Take a picture to share on social media!
Notes
See above Tips Section in the article for cooking tips and FAQ of this recipe.
Rate Recipe: If you've tried the recipe, don't forget to Rate the Recipe in the Comments Section. Thank you!
Calories: 447kcal
Course: Dinner, Lunch, Main
Cuisine: Asian, Japanese
Keyword: instant pot beef curry, instant pot curry, instant pot japanese curry, japanese beef curry, japanese curry, pressure cooker beef curry, pressure cooker curry
Nutrition
Calories: 447kcal | Carbohydrates: 13g | Protein: 31g | Fat: 30g | Saturated Fat: 14g | Cholesterol: 118mg | Sodium: 346mg | Potassium: 726mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 6g | Vitamin A: 2140IU | Vitamin C: 10mg | Calcium: 72mg | Iron: 4mg
Want More Japanese Curry Recipes?
Katsu Curry (Japanese Curry Rice with Tonkatsu)
Some Useful Tips & Resources
50+ Instant Pot Recipes
All Our Pressure Cooker Recipes
Disclosure: We are an Amazon Influencer/Amazon Associate. This means that if you decide to purchase items or services on Amazon through our links on Pressure Cook Recipes to Amazon, Amazon will send a small commission to us at no additional costs to you. Thank you! 
Label
Rate This Recipe! Rate This Recipe! 
Please read before leaving a comment :) 
1) If you have a question, it'll be great if you can try to search for the answer first by checking the comments below. Thank you so much. :) 
2) We’re super thankful for all the reviews. We may not be able to reply to all of you, but we read and enjoy every single one of them. 
Name
Email
Pressure Cooker Instant Pot Mini (3 Quart) Instant Pot LUX 60 Instant Pot DUO 60 Instant Pot Ultra 60 Instant Pot DUO EVO PLUS 60 Instant Pot LUX 80 Instant Pot DUO 80 Instant Pot Ultra 80 Instant Pot DUO EVO PLUS 80 Instant Pot MAX Other Pressure Cooker, Please specify in comment.
Label
Rate This Recipe! Rate This Recipe! 
Please read before leaving a comment :) 
1) If you have a question, it'll be great if you can try to search for the answer first by checking the comments below. Thank you so much. :) 
2) We’re super thankful for all the reviews. We may not be able to reply to all of you, but we read and enjoy every single one of them. 
Name
Email
260 Comments 
newest __
oldest most helpful
Inline Feedbacks
View all comments
Load More Comments 
Hello, We are Amy + Jacky!
Amy + Jacky is a husband and wife team who worked directly with Instant Pot company, pressure cooker manufacturers, and 35+ restaurants. Our goal is to give you the confidence and knowledge to cook with an Instant Pot or pressure cooker through our well tested recipes. 
Latest Recipes
Instant Pot Cabbage
Instant Pot Chinese Sticky Rice
Instant Pot Beef Stew
SUBSCRIBE FOR TRUSTED RECIPES + TIPS
Tried & True Recipes Delivered To Your Inbox Weekly. 100% Free!
SUBSCRIBE
Please Check Your Email
Please check your inbox (sometimes Junk Box) and confirm your subscription! Then, add our email address to your contact list to ensure you will receive our recipes, tips, and giveaways!
Getting Started
50+ Instant Pot Recipes
Browse Recipes
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Back to Top
Copyright © 2016 - 2021 · Pressure Cook Recipes · ALL RIGHTS RESERVED · Recipes Made With ♥
Getting Started
Instant Pot & Pressure Cooker Recipes
Chicken Recipes
Beef Recipes
Pork Recipes
Vegetarian Recipes
Bean Recipes
Dessert Recipes
Side Dishes Recipes
Soup Recipes
One Pot Meals
Instant Pot Beginners Guide
Instant Pot Accessories
Instant Pot Videos
Contact us
Start typing to see results or hit ESC to close 
See all results __
Insert
Send this to a friend
SendCancel
