https://sweetpeaskitchen.com/sheet-pan-quesadillas/
Home
All Recipes
Breakfast
Dessert
Dinner
Appetizer
Side Dish
Drinks
Copycat Recipes
Instant Pot
Slow Cooker
Low Carb
Weight Loss
About us
Work With Us
Privacy Policy
Contact
Pin Recipe ________
Dinner
Sheet Pan Quesadillas
1420 shares
Facebook26
Pinterest1394
Jump to Recipe
If you are craving Mexican food these Sheet Pan Quesadillas are the PERFECT quick and easy dinner! Skip the stove and save time with these oven-baked quesadillas!
Stuffed with meat, vegetables and cheese, this melty cheese sheet pan quesadilla is good on its own and it is great for every meal. To add even more flavor, you can garnish with homemade pico de gallo, which is basically a mixture of chopped tomato, onion, cilantro and a little bit of fresh jalapeño.
These sheet pan quesadillas will be the biggest hit in your next dinner party for sure!
Ingredients:
1 tbsp _Olive Oil
2 Bell _Peppers (Chopped)
1 _Onion (Chopped)
1 1/2 lb _Ground Beef
1 tsp _Chili Powder
1 tsp _Cumin
1/2 tsp _Paprika
Salt _(To taste)
Ground _Black Pepper (To taste)
8 Large _Flour Tortillas
1 cup _Cheddar Cheese (Shredded)
1 cup _Monterey Chesse (Shredded)
2 Green _Onions (Thinly sliced)
Sour cream (For garnish)
Pico de Gallo (For garnish)
How to make Sheet Pan Quesadillas:
Step 1: Preheat the oven to 425° F / 220° C.
Step 2: Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add onion and bell peppers, cook until soft for about 5 minutes. Remove from skillet and set aside in a small bowl.
Step 3: In the same skillet add ground beef and cook, breaking up meat until you get a brown color for about 5 minutes. Make sure to drain fat.
Step 4: Stir in paprika, chili powder, cumin, and season with salt and pepper to taste.
Step 5: Place 6 tortillas on a baking sheet, make sure to overlap the tortillas, and place another one to cover the baking sheet completely.
Step 6: Top with ground beef, then add pepper and onion mixture.
Step 7: Add shredded cheese and green onions on the top.
Step 8: Fold the tortillas towards the center and place another tortilla in the center on top of all fillings. If the tortillas don’t stay in place, put a second baking sheet on top of it to help quesadilla hold its shape.
Step 9: Bake until tortillas are beginning to turn crispy, about 25-35 minutes. If you added a second baking sheet, remove it after 10 minutes and continue baking.
Step 10: Slice the quesadillas into rectangles and serve warm with sour cream and pico de gallo on the top.
Enjoy!
Now, remember to save this recipe on Pinterest for later 🙂
Continue to Content
Sheet Pan Quesadillas
Cook Time:_ 40 minutes
Total Time:_ 40 minutes
Print 
Ingredients
1 tbsp Olive Oil 
2 Bell Peppers (Chopped) 
1 Onion (Chopped) 
1 1/2 lb Ground Beef 
1 tsp Chili Powder 
1 tsp Cumin 
1/2 tsp Paprika 
Salt (To taste) 
Ground Black Pepper (To taste) 
8 Large Flour Tortillas 
1 cup Cheddar Cheese (Shredded) 
1 cup Monterey Chesse (Shredded) 
2 Green Onions (Thinly sliced) 
Sour cream (For garnish) 
Pico de Gallo (For garnish) 
Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 425° F / 220° C.
2. Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add onion and bell peppers, cook until soft for about 5 minutes. Remove from skillet and set aside in a small bowl.
3. In the same skillet add ground beef and cook, breaking up meat until you get a brown color for about 5 minutes. Make sure to drain fat.
4. Stir in paprika, chili powder, cumin, and season with salt and pepper to taste.
5. Place 6 tortillas on a baking sheet, make sure to overlap the tortillas, and place another one to cover the baking sheet completely.
6. Top with ground beef, then add pepper and onion mixture.
7. Add shredded cheese and green onions on the top.
8. Fold the tortillas towards the center and place another tortilla in the center on top of all fillings. If the tortillas don’t stay in place, put a second baking sheet on top of it to help quesadilla hold is shape.
9. Bake until tortillas are beginning to turn crispy, about 25-35 minutes. If you added a second baking sheet, remove it after 10 minutes and continue baking.
10. Slice the quesadillas into rectangles and serve warm with sour cream and pico de gallo on the top.
11. Enjoy!
Follow me on Pinterest, I'm pinning all sort of delciousness!
Make sure you save this recipe on Pinterest for later
Laura
Cuisine: Americain / Category: Dinner
1420 shares
Facebook26
Pinterest1394
Pin
By Laura
0 __
Newsletter
Never Miss a Recipe!
Sign up and receive the latest tips via email.
Leave this field empty if you're human: 
You Might Also Like
Quinoa and Roasted Pepper Chili
November 16, 2020
Layered Mexican Tortilla Casserole
February 15, 2021
Hamburger Supreme Casserole
October 22, 2021
No Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply
Name 
Email 
Website
Looking for a recipe?
Never Miss a Recipe!
Sign up and receive the latest tips via email.
Leave this field empty if you're human: 
Copyright SweetPeasKitchen.Com 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Top __
Skip to Recipe
1420 shares
