https://www.taste.com.au/recipes/tomato-relish-2/a1bd7467-079e-41f4-831c-fb93464491cc
Log In | Sign Up
Recipes Dinner Quick & Easy Healthy Baking Entertaining Healthy meal plan Video Win!
More
Healthy meal plan
Video
Win!
Tomato relish
1h 40m_ cook
makes _3 cups_
70
Save Recipe
1,810 people saved this 
262 people made this 
Keep this delicious tomato relish in the fridge to add flavour to Aussies pies, hotdogs and burgers.
V
Valli Little 
216 calories per serve 
Allergens: Recipe may contain gluten, sesame and wheat. 
More nutrition information >
9 Ingredients 
3 Method Steps 
9 Ingredients
1.5kg vine-ripened tomatoes, peeled (see notes), chopped 
4 onions, chopped 
1 tbsp salt 
2 cups (500ml) malt vinegar 
2 firmly packed cups (500g) brown sugar 
1 tsp chilli powder 
2 tbsp plain flour 
1 tbsp KEEN'S Traditional Curry Powder 
1 tbsp KEEN'S Mustard Powder 
Select all ingredients 
Add to shopping list
3 Method Steps
Step 1
Place the tomato
Unsure of the quantity needed?
Click on the underlined ingredient to reveal the quantity. No need to flip back and forth!
OK, Got It
1.5kg vine-ripened tomatoes, peeled (see notes), chopped) and onion (4 onions, chopped) in a bowl. Cover with salt (1 tbsp salt) and stand overnight at room temperature. 
Step 2
The next day, drain any liquid, then place tomato mixture in a pan with 1 cup (250ml) vinegar. Bring to the boil, then reduce heat to low. Simmer for 30 minutes. Add sugar (2 firmly packed cups (500g) brown sugar) and chilli (1 tsp chilli powder), then simmer, stirring occasionally, for 1 hour. 
Step 3
Mix flour (2 tbsp plain flour), curry (1 tbsp KEEN'S Traditional Curry Powder) and mustard powders (1 tbsp KEEN'S Mustard Powder) with remaining 1 cup (250ml) vinegar, then add to pan. Cook for 3-4 minutes until thickened. Pour hot relish into sterilised jars (see notes). 
Did you make this?
I MADE THIS
262 people made this 
Tell us what you think of this recipe!
Rate Now
Save Recipe
1,810 people saved this 
Recipe Notes
This will keep for up to 6 months in a sterilised jar in the fridge.
You can sterilise glass jars in the dishwasher on the hottest cycle, or alternatively, heat washed, dried jars and metal lids in a 120C oven for 20 minutes. Fill jars while still hot.
Begin this recipe a day ahead.
To peel tomatoes, score a cross in the base, then cover with boiling water for 30 seconds. Drain and refresh in iced water, then peel.
The nutritional information for this recipe is based on 12 servings.
NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
Nutrition per Serving
Daily Value
Nutrition information and Health Score does not include ingredients listed as to serve or any serving suggestions.
Nutrition information is calculated using an ingredient database and should be considered an estimate.
The % daily values indicates how much of a nutrient in a food serving contributes to a daily diet, based on general nutritional advice for a diet of 2100 calories a day.
Health Scores are calculated on a 1-10 scale based on nutrient density and USDA (global standard) recommendations for a healthy diet. A higher Health Score indicates a healthier recipe. The value is based on the impact of macronutrients and micronutrients in the recipe.
Image by Jeremy Simons
Popular on Taste 
Autumn recipes
Quick and easy lunchbox ideas we just rediscovered
Beef mince recipes
Potato bakes with a twist
Slow cooker recipes it's never too early for
Best chicken breast recipes
Top 100 easy dinner recipes
Australia's best healthy dinner recipes
comments & ratings
Login to join the conversation. Don't have an account? Sign up
View More
Subscribe to our weekly newsletter.
Get a weekly round-up of the latest recipes, 
dinner ideas & tips from Australia's 1 food site
A note about relevant advertising 
We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out here. 
Copyright 2022 NewsLifeMedia all rights reserved
Privacy Policy
Relevant Ads Opt-Out
Cookie Policy
About us
FAQ
Advertise
Legal Notices
Contact us
Code of conduct
