instructions
drain potatoes and pat dry.
in a large skillet cook the sugar on medium-low heat until completely melted. do not stir!
when melted and slightly darkened around the edges, add the butter and stir until it becomes kind of a syrupy mixture.
add the potatoes and a little bit of water (if the mixture starts to stiffen and form lumps turn the heat up and it will melt again).
moving the skillet around, gently cover each potato in the mixture, continuing to cook for about 6-8 minutes.instructions
marinated oranges
combine water, sugar, cloves and cardamom pods in a saucepan. let come to a boil, then simmer for 6-8 minutes, swirling the pan every now and then, until syrup is slightly thickened. remove from heat and stir in the rum. let cool.
cut away the ends of the oranges, then cut down the sides to remove the peel and the white pith. thinly slice the oranges and place them in a bowl. pour the syrup over the orange slices, cover the bowl and let marinate in the fridge for at least two hours. discard the cloves and cardamom pods before serving.
ris à la malta
place the rice, water and salt in a saucepan. let come to a boil and let simmer with the lid on for 10 minutes. add the milk and cinnamon stick, and on low heat – let mixture simmer gently with the lid on until thickened, about 30-35 minutes, stirring every now and then to make sure it doesn’t burn. remove from heat, discard the cinnamon stick and let cool completely.
whip the cream to soft peaks together with the vanilla and sugar, then stir the whipped cream into the rice pudding. serve the ris à la malta with the orange slices and syrup.
instructions
apelsinris
place the rice, water, salt and cinnamon stick in a saucepan. let come to a boil and let simmer with the lid on, stirring every now and then, for about 25 minutes or until the rice is soft. pour into a sieve and rinse with cold water until rice is completely cold. discard the cinnamon stick and spoon rice into a large bowl.
in another bowl, whip the cream to soft peaks together with the vanilla and sugar, then stir the whipped cream into the cooked rice. cut the orange slices (see recipe for marinated oranges above) into smaller pieces and spoon into the rice mixture. serve with some of the syrup.
preheat oven to 200degrees celsius top/bottom-heat. peel the beetroots, cut into small cubes, mix with 1 tbsp olive oil (best by hand) and spread on a baking sheet covered with baking parchment. put the garlic cloves (unpeeled!) as well on the baking sheet and spread some oregano. bake for 40min at 200degrees celsius (or a bit longer, depends on firmness to the bite). in the end add spread the honey on the beetroot and bake for another 2min.
meanwhile chop the onion and ginger. bring water to boil and mix the vegetable broth with 500ml boiling water. put the onion and some olive oil into a pot and braise lightly for 1min, then add the risotto rice and stir for 2-3min before you add some of the vegetable broth and the ginger (turn to low heat). continue stirring constantly and when the vegetable broth evaporated, add some more of it. repeat that process until the risotto is done (maybe you have to add more boiling water). when the beetroot is done, stir in the risotto rice. cut the garlic cloves and press the soft garlic out, then stir into the risotto. salt the risotto, if needed.
instructions
brown the butter:
in a light-colored pot or skillet add cubed butter and melt over medium heat.
the butter will start foaming, stir the butter for the next 5-7 minutes until you notice brown bits at the bottom of the pot and you’ll smell the nutty aroma.
remove from heat and pour into a dish then refrigerate until it solidifies. this will take about an hour.
make the cookie dough:
in a large mixing bowl, spoon the butter. beat the chilled butter for 1 minute until smooth.
add the sugars and beat well.
pour in tahini then add egg and vanilla extract then beat to combine.
add just one tablespoon of the milk and mix well, keep the other one if you feel the dough is not moist enough.
in another bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, and baking powder.
add the flour mixture to the butter mixture and mix well. note1
cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes or up to 3 days.
preheat oven to 350f
line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
remove cookie dough from refrigerator and scoop batter into balls pressing lightly on sesame seeds if using.
place cookies on the prepared baking sheet 2-3 inches apart. cookies will spread. note2
bake anywhere from 8-10 minutes on the middle rack of your oven. remove from oven when the edges are lightly brown and the middle is still pale.
allow to firm up on the cookies sheet for a couple of minutes then transfer to a cooling rack.
allow the cookie sheet to cool completely before adding another batch of cookies.
method
step 1
to make the cheat’s fish stock, put all the ingredients in a large pan with 1.2 litres of water and simmer gently for 45 minutes. turn off the heat. use a slotted spoon to remove all the solids, then strain the broth through a muslin or tea towel into a second pan to remove any impurities.
step 2
bash the allspice berries once each with a rolling pin to slightly crush them. add them and the potatoes to the broth, bring to the boil again and simmer for around 12 minutes or until the potatoes are just tender. add the salmon and continue cooking for another 2 minutes or until the fish is cooked through. season with salt and pepper, stir in the butter and cream, bring back to a simmer and then serve in two bowls. divide and sprinkle half the dill on top of each portion.
instructions
rinse the rice with cold water until the water runs clear. drain well and set aside.
in a medium non-stick pot, heat the olive oil on medium heat. add the vermicelli pasta and cook, stirring frequently until all the vermicelli is a deep golden brown color. be careful not to burn it. 
transfer the rice over the cooked vermicelli, and stir to combine and coat the rice with the olive oil. season with salt and a dash of cinnamon, if desired. 
add 4 cups water and bring the mixture to a boil. the water will reduce in the process. reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and cook for 15 minutes.
when the rice is fully cooked, remove from the heat and allow the rice to steam for 5 minutes. then uncover and fluff with a fork. 
serve warm with fresh parsley, and toasted nuts, if desired. 
instructions
heat a deep, large skillet or sauté pan on medium. slowly warm olive oil in the pan. add chopped onion, sauté for a few minutes until the onion begins to soften. add garlic and continue to sauté till mixture is fragrant.   
add the diced bell pepper, sauté for 5-7 minutes over medium until softened.
add tomatoes and tomato paste to pan, stir until blended. add spices and sugar, stir, and allow mixture to simmer over medium heat for 5-7 minutes until it starts to reduce. 
at this point, you can taste the mixture and spice it according to your preferences. add salt and pepper to taste, more sugar for a sweeter sauce, or more cayenne pepper for a spicier shakshuka (be careful with the cayenne... it is extremely spicy!).
crack the eggs, one at a time, directly over the tomato mixture, making sure to space them evenly over the sauce. i usually place 5 eggs around the outer edge and 1 in the center. the eggs will cook "over easy" style on top of the tomato sauce.
cover the pan with a lid. allow mixture to simmer for 10-15 minutes, or until the eggs are cooked and the sauce has slightly reduced. keep an eye on the skillet to make sure that the sauce doesn't reduce too much, which can lead to burning.
some people prefer their shakshuka with more runny yolks. if this is your preference, let the sauce reduce for a few minutes before cracking the eggs on top-- then, cover the pan and cook the eggs to taste, making sure the egg whites are set before serving. garnish with the chopped parsley or cilantro, if desired. a sprinkle of feta cheese on top is also nice!
peel the sweet potato, cut it into 1cm cubes and place it in a saucepan with just enough water to cover it. cook until tender but not too soft, about 15 minutes. drain, set aside and cool.
heat a small amount of vegetable oil in a large pan and add the onion and garlic. cook until soft, add the cumin and cook a further 30 seconds to combine, then take off the heat. this pan can be used later to cook all the patties.
using a food processor, process the bread slices down into breadcrumbs. make sure they are fairly even, without big lumps. there should be at least two cups of breadcrumbs. set them aside in a large mixing bowl.
drain and rinse the cannellini beans in water.
using the processor, process the beans with the onion mixture, cashews, tahini and lemon juice. put everything in together before starting the machine, rather than adding ingredients.
whiz it all up for about 30 seconds to chop the cashews up a bit, but not too small, as you want to retain pieces for texture rather than having it too smooth.
now add this mix to the breadcrumbs in the bowl along with the sweet potato, salt and pepper, chilli sauce and parsley. stir it all with a fork until it is an even mix. you may need a little more lemon juice to help hold it together if it is too dry.
it is best, but not essential, if the sweet potato is cool when forming the patties.
put plain flour in a shallow dish or bowl, then using a tablespoon, form each patty and coat them in flour. heat a small amount of oil in a large pan and fry patties.
instructions
preheat oven to 350°f. grease a 13 x 9″ glass baking pan and set aside.
remove the stem and break or cut the fruit in half. remove any hard black seeds and scoop out the flesh with a spoon. then using a stand or handheld blender, pulse the fruit a few times to break up the seed casings. measure out 2 cups.
in a large bowl, whisk together the persimmon pulp, butter, eggs, sugars, and vanilla.
in a separate bowl, toss together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt.
sift the flour mixture into the wet ingredients and stir by hand until combined. the batter will be lumpy. fold in the chopped nuts and pour the batter into the prepared baking pan.
bake for 45-55 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. if the edges start brown too quickly, loosely cover with foil and continue baking until done. enjoy with some vanilla ice cream or whipped cream if desired.
directions
instructions checklist
step 1
butter a 12-cup pudding mold. fill a large pot fitted with a steamer insert with enough water to come halfway up mold (test this with an empty mold); set aside. sift flour, spices, and salt in a bowl; set aside. put calvados and sultanas into a small saucepan. bring to a simmer. remove from heat; let stand 15 minutes. drain; discard liquid. set raisins aside.
step 2
meanwhile, slice tops off persimmons. scoop out flesh, and press through a sieve into a bowl, discarding skins (you should have 1 1/2 cups persimmon puree). whisk in milk; set aside.
step 3
put butter and sugar into the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment; mix on medium speed until pale and fluffy. mix in eggs, vanilla, and lemon juice. add persimmon mixture in 2 batches, scraping down sides of bowl after each addition. mix in baking soda mixture. add flour mixture; mix until just combined. stir in pecans, sultanas, and ginger. pour into prepared mold; cover with buttered parchment and lid.
step 4
bring water in prepared pot to a boil; reduce heat to a simmer. carefully lower mold into steamer. cover pot, and steam until a cake tester inserted in center comes out clean, 3 to 3 1/2 hours, checking occasionally to make sure water level is maintained (add hot water as needed).
step 5
transfer mold to a wire rack; remove lid and parchment. let cool 15 minutes. unmold pudding onto a plate, and cut into slices. serve with persimmon slices and calvados cream.
instructions
persimmon jam
scoop the flesh out of the persimmons, removing any seeds, and add to a medium pot with the bourbon, sugar, cinnamon, and star anise. heat on medium-high, stirring to dissolve the sugar until the mixture is boiling.
continue boiling for 5 minutes. then use a slotted spoon to remove the cinnamon stick and star anise, and discard.
stir gently, and then continue boiling another 5 minutes, using a spatula or wooden spoon to break up any large pieces of fruit, until thickened slightly. turn off the heat and stir in salt to taste.
let cool in the pan for about 5 minutes, then transfer to a glass bowl or jar. cover loosely and set aside until cool enough to handle.
thumbprint cookies
preheat the oven to 375°f with a rack in the middle. line a cookie sheet with parchment paper.
in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream together the butter and sugar on medium-low speed until lightened in color and fluffy in texture, about 2 minutes.
scrape down the sides, then add in the egg and almond extract, and continue mixing on medium-low until thoroughly combined, about 1 minute.
in a medium bowl, whisk together the flours, salt, and baking powder until uniform. add the dry ingredients into the mixer bowl, and mix on low until just incorporated.
form the dough into 1-inch balls and place them on the prepared baking sheet, 2-inches apart. i fit 8 cookies on a standard half sheet pan. place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
remove from the freezer and place directly into the oven. bake for 7-9 minutes. the cookies will not look done, and they should have spread slightly.
before cooling, use a cork or a another similarly sized object to make a depression in the center of each cookie. then fill with ½ tsp of the persimmon jam.
transfer the cookies to a rack to cool completely. serve warm or cooled the same day, or store these in the fridge for 3-4 days. let sit at room temperature for 10 minutes before serving chilled cookies.
instructions
prepare the persimmons
if you haven’t already, peel and mash the persimmons. you know the persimmon is ripe and ready to peel if it looks and feels a little mushy—like an overripe tomato.
if it the persimmon is ripe, it will be easy to peel the skin off with your hands. then just take the persimmon fruit off of the sepal/calyx, place the fruit in a bowl, and mash with a fork and/or your hands.
measure out ¾ cup of mashed persimmon to use in this recipe. if you have any extra persimmon, freeze it. (see my tips for freezing mashed persimmon in the notes below, and my photo tutorial in the article above.)
prepare the wet ingredients
to a large mixing bowl, add the mashed persimmon, brown sugar, canola oil, and vanilla extract. stir until incorporated. now add the almond milk, and stir until the almond milk is incorporated as well.
add the dry ingredients
now add the flour, almond flour, baking soda, all spice, cinnamon, and salt. stir until just incorporated.
now add the chocolate chunks, if using.
bake the pudding
oil 5 or 6, 8 ounce ramekins. (if you use chocolate chunks, you’ll use 6 ramekins; if you don’t use chocolate chunks, you’ll use 5 ramekins.)
fill each ramekin with an even amount of batter. (the ramekins will be about ¾ of the way full.)
bake at 350 degrees for 30-35 minutes, until the top of each pudding is set, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out mostly clean.
note if you don’t use chocolate chunks, the pudding will finish baking closer to 30 minutes; if you use chocolate chunks, the pudding will finish baking closer to 35 minutes.
serve and enjoy!
the persimmon pudding will reach its final texture after cooling completely. let cool for at least one hour before serving.
serve the pudding alone, with vanilla ice cream, or a glass of almond milk.
instructions:
preheat the oven to 350°f/180°c. prepare a muffin tray and oil the cups.
for the upside down oranges: in a suitable pot, place the sliced oranges, water, brown sugar and rosemary. bring the liquid to a boil over medium heat and let simmer for about 10 minutes. carefully remove the oranges and let cool. continue to reduce the syrup for another 10 minutes.
after the oranges have cooled a bit, carefully cut the orange peel around with a sharp knife, making round orange wheels. place each orange coin in each of the greased muffins tins.
in a mixing bowl place spelled flower, semolina, grounded almonds, baking powder and baking soda powder. stir. in a separate bowl place the wet ingredients- orange juice, olive oil, apple puree and vanilla extract. mix until the mixture is well combined.
transfer the wet ingredients mixture to the dry ingredients mixture. mix until the mixture is smooth without any lumps in it. the mixture is slightly liquidish and that's fine
fill each of the muffins tins with the muffins mixture almost to the end. bake for 20 minutes and allow it to cool for another 10 minutes. after cooling off, go with a knife around the muffins edges to help the muffins to be released, and then turn over the tray over a cooling net. pour some of the sugar and rosemary syrup on each of the muffins.
the muffins are best on the day of baking. it can be kept in a sealed container in the refrigerator for about 4 days.
instructions
drain potatoes and pat dry.
in a large skillet cook the sugar on medium-low heat until completely melted. do not stir!
when melted and slightly darkened around the edges, add the butter and stir until it becomes kind of a syrupy mixture.
add the potatoes and a little bit of water (if the mixture starts to stiffen and form lumps turn the heat up and it will melt again).
moving the skillet around, gently cover each potato in the mixture, continuing to cook for about 6-8 minutes.
instructions
parboiled rice:
bring water to the boil in a large pot. add salt and rice. bring back up to the boil then cook for 5 minutes. drain and leave to steam dry for 5 minutes.
barberries:
melt butter in a small pan over medium heat. add barberries and cook for about 1 1/2 minutes until they plump up (see video!).
remove from heat (they will shrivel quickly) then stir through rose water (if using).
saffron rice:
preheat oven to 200c/390f (standard) or 180c/350f (fan).
lightly grease a glass pie dish with oil.
ground saffron into powder (optional step). add water and leave to seep for 10 minutes.
mix yogurt, egg, oil, saffron water and salt in a large bowl.
add rice, stir well.
pour half the rice in the pie dish, smooth surface. top with 1/3 of the barberries.
cover with remaining rice, smooth surface, sprinkle over another 1/3 of the barberries. press down firmly, cover with foil.
bake 60 - 80 minutes until the crust is deep golden all over.
rest for 10 minutes. remove foil. place serving plate on pie dish then flip upside down (it won't stick because of the oil, see video!).
scatter surface with remaining barberries then serve.
instructions
break the pita bread into small bite-size pieces. heat 3 tablespoon of olive oil in a large pan until shimmering, and add the pita bread. fry briefly until browned, tossing frequently. using a pair of tongs, transfer the fried pita chips to a plate lined with paper towel to drain.  season with salt, pepper and sumac.
in a large mixing bowl, combine the chopped lettuce, cucumber, tomatoes, green onions with the sliced radish and parsley.
to make the dressing, in a small bowl, whisk together the lemon or lime juice, olive oil, pomegranate molasses (if using), salt, pepper and spices.
pour  toss lightly. finally, add the pita chips, and more sumac if you like, and toss one more time. transfer to small serving bowls or plates. enjoy!
instructions
preheat the oven to 350*
add the chopped onions, mint, and parsley to the well of a food processor. pulse 8-10 times until the herbs and onions are minced. add the spices to the onion and herb mixture and pulse a few times to incorporate the spices. break up the ground beef into chunks and it to the spiced onion and herb mixture, then add the egg yolk. pulse the mixture until the ingredients are completely incorporated into the ground beef.
form meatballs that are 1.5″ in size (mine were about 1 heaping tablespoon each, for a total of 18) and set aside.
heat a cast iron pan over medium heat. add the avocado oil and heat until it shimmers. add half the meatballs to the cast iron pan and brown, giving the pan a gentle toss every minute or two, until the meatballs are browned on all sides. remove the brown meatballs and set aside. repeat with the remaining batch.
once all the meatballs have been browned, return all the meatballs to the cast iron pan in a single layer, leaving a little space in-between each. bake at 350* for 15-20 minutes, or until the internal temperature reaches 170*.
while the meatballs are baking, prepare the tahini sauce. place the tahini, olive oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper into a blender along with ¼ cup of water to start. blend until emulsified. add additional water to reach desired consistency. for dipping sauce, vs. a salad dressing, i use closer to half a quarter cup.
remove the meatballs from the oven and serve immediately with tahini sauce on the size.
instructions
place the chickpeas in a medium saucepan and add the baking soda. cover the chickpeas by several inches of water, then bring the mixture to a boil over high heat. continue boiling, reducing heat if necessary to prevent overflow, for about 20 minutes, or until the chickpeas look bloated, their skins are falling off, and they’re quite soft. in a fine-mesh strainer, drain the chickpeas and run cool water over them for about 30 seconds. set aside (no need to peel the chickpeas for this recipe!).
meanwhile, in a food processor or high-powered blender, combine the lemon juice, garlic and salt. process until the garlic is very finely chopped, then let the mixture rest so the garlic flavor can mellow, ideally 10 minutes or longer.
add the tahini to the food processor and blend until the mixture is thick and creamy, stopping to scrape down any tahini stuck to the sides and bottom of the processor as necessary.
while running the food processor, drizzle in 2 tablespoons ice water. scrape down the food processor, and blend until the mixture is ultra smooth, pale and creamy. (if your tahini was extra-thick to begin with, you might need to add 1 to 2 tablespoons more ice water.)
add the cumin and the drained, over-cooked chickpeas to the food processor. while blending, drizzle in the olive oil. blend until the mixture is super smooth, scraping down the sides of the processor as necessary, about 2 minutes. add more ice water by the tablespoon if necessary to achieve a super creamy texture.
taste, and adjust as necessary—i almost always add another ¼ teaspoon salt for more overall flavor and another tablespoon of lemon juice for extra zing.
scrape the hummus into a serving bowl or platter, and use a spoon to create nice swooshes on top. top with garnishes of your choice, and serve. leftover hummus keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 1 week.
instructions
heat small pot with a tablespoon of butter, 1 shallot and the zest of half a lemon.
over medium heat, we are going to melt the butter and let the butter get infused with the flavors of the shallot and the lemon zest. give this about 3 minutes. again, you are sweating the aromatics not browning them.
throw in a cup of your israel couscous and toss everything together, ensuring your couscous is covered by the shallot and butter mixture. essentially you are toasting them a bit. do this for about 2 minutes.
pour in 1 and 1/4 cups of chicken broth, stock or water. i find the chicken stocks and broths give it a more savory flavor. season with salt and pepper. bring to a simmer and cook, covered for 10 minutes.
fluff with a fork. this will ensure you have light and fluffy individual grains. sprinkle in 1/4 cup of parmesan cheese and mix with a fork. taste for seasoning.
serve in a bowl with some more lemon zest, chopped parsley and nice shredding of parmesan cheese on top.
instructions
to make the dressing, smash the garlic cloves under the blade of a knife or roughly chop them. add the garlic, tahini, water, lemon juice, cumin, cayenne, and salt to a blender. blend until the mixture is smooth and the garlic is in small pieces. refrigerate the dressing until ready to use.
to cook the bulgur, place the dry bulgur in a sauce pot. cook and stir the dry bulgur (without water or oil) over medium heat for two minutes to toast it slightly. add one cup of water and bring the mixture up to a boil. add a lid to the pot, turn the heat down to low, and let it simmer for 20 minutes. after 20 minutes, fluff the bulgur and transfer it to the refrigerator without a lid to cool.
wash the parsley and cilantro well under cool water. shake as much water off as possible. pull the leaves from the stems and then roughly chop the leaves. place the chopped parsley and cilantro in a bowl.
dice the tomato and add it to the bowl. rinse and drain the chickpeas, then add them to the bowl. finally, add the cooled bulgur to the boil and stir to combine the ingredients. add a liberal amount of the tahini dressing and stir until everything is well coated.
instructions
add the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer and make a well in its center.
add the salt into the center of the well and start kneading at medium speed, gradually incorporating the water.
kneading must be very fast and the dough must be soft and homogeneous.
the dough must come off the edges of the bowl.
leave the dough in the bowl and cover it with plastic wrap.
let it rest in a warm place away from drafts for 30 minutes.
finely spread the dough on a lightly floured work surface and fold it in 4, by folding the sides inwards. let it rest again for 30 minutes in a warm, draft-free place.
repeat this process 4 times in total with 4 rest periods in order to make the dough very elastic.
preheat the oven to 430 f (220˚c) for 30 minutes (if oven baking is chosen)
divide the dough into 3 or 4 dough pieces and roll them up.
roll out the dough very thinly, to about 1/16 inch (1,5 mm) thick. give it a square, rectangular, round, or oval shape of your choice.
baking in an oven
place each bread one at a time on the hot oven baking sheet and bake for 4 to 5 minutes.
baking on a griddle
place each bread one at a time on the very hot griddle and bake each bread for about 2 minutes on each side
baking on a pan
place each bread one at a time on the very hot pan and bake for about 2 minutes on each side.
baking on a pizza stone
heat the pizza stone for one hour in an oven at 430 f (220˚c).
bake each lavash on the stone in an oven at 375 f (190˚c) for 4 to 5 minutes.
after baking, lightly spray each lavash with warm water.
instructions
in a medium bowl, combine the yogurt, olive oil, paprika, cumin, cinnamon, red pepper flakes, lemon zest, lemon juice, salt, pepper and garlic.
line a baking sheet with aluminum foil for easy clean up. thread the chicken onto metal skewers, folding if the pieces are long and thin, alternating with the red onions. be sure not to cram the skewers. (note: you'll need between 6-8 skewers.) place the kabobs on the prepared baking sheet. brush the marinade all over the meat, coating well. cover and refrigerate at least eight hours or overnight.
preheat the grill to medium-high heat. to grease the grill, lightly dip a wad of paper towels in vegetable oil and, using tongs, carefully rub over the grates several times until glossy and coated. grill the chicken kabobs until golden brown and cooked through, turning the skewers occasionally, 13 to 15 minutes. (the yogurt marinade makes these kabobs prone to sticking to the grill grates; if necessary, use a metal bbq spatula to scrape underneath the kabobs and release them.) transfer the kabobs to a platter and serve.
note: i've specified boneless skinless chicken thighs for this recipe; they're juicier and more flavorful than chicken breasts, and they work better in this type of yogurt and lemon-based marinade. they're also much easier to cook without drying out.
instructions
in a soup pot heat olive oil on medium. add the onion, celery, carrots, and garlic. sauté until onion is translucent. add 4 cups of broth and the lentils. bring to a boil and cook until the vegetables are tender. add cumin, salt, and allspice. turn down heat to low and allow to simmer for about 30-40 minutes.
using an immersion blender blend solids thoroughly.
add the remaining broth and simmer for an additional 15 minutes.
add the lemon juice and additional salt to taste.
instructions
cut the egg(s) in quarters and place in the center of the plate.
arrange the remaining items on the plate around the egg.
garnish the egg with sumac, salt and pepper, and sprinkle the entire plate with flatleaf parsley.
