1. In a large bowl, stir together the flours and salt. Add the sourdough starter and buttermilk and mix with a rubber spatula until the dough comes together. You can also use your hands to gently bring the dough together, gathering any pieces that have stuck to the sides of the bowl. It should be sticky!
2. Shape the dough into a round and cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap. Set the bowl out at room temperature - 70-75F is best - for 4-5 hours. This is the first fermentation. 
3. Lightly flour a clean work surface and your hands. Remove the dough round from the bowl and place it on the floured surface (save the plastic wrap to use it again!). Use a bench scraper or large chef’s knife to divide the dough in half, and then each half into four equal portions. 
4. Gently roll each portion in between your hands into a round and place on a clean plate. Cover the plate with the plastic wrap and refrigerate for 14-16 hours, or overnight. This is the slow fermentation. 
5. When you’re ready to cook them, remove the plate from the fridge and let them sit out at room temperature for about 10 minutes before cooking. 
6. Meanwhile, heat a nonstick skillet over low-medium heat and lightly grease with oil, about 1-2 teaspoons (you don’t need much). Transfer the dough portions to the skillet, leaving about 2 inches of space between each to ensure the skillet isn’t over-crowded. Cook on one side for 5 minutes, then flip and cook for another 5 minutes. By this time, they’ll have risen and each side should be golden brown and the centers will likely still be pale and just undercooked. Cook each side on low heat for an additional 2-3 minutes, or until the center is no longer pale. It should be the same color as the outside edges of the English muffins. Transfer to a plate to cool completely before serving. 
7. For best nook-and-cranny results, poke a fork horizontally through the center of the English muffin all the way around and gently pull it apart. Toast it and spread a little butter, jam, and/or peanut butter. My favorite combination is peanut butter, banana, a little honey and a sprinkle of cinnamon and sea salt. So tasty! 
8. Store leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature for up to one week, or in the freezer for several months. 