Ingredients
1 lb dry chickpeas (also known as garbanzo beans) \- you must start with dry, do NOT substitute canned, they will not work!
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 small onion, roughly chopped
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
3-5 cloves garlic (I prefer roasted garlic cloves)
1 1/2 tbsp flour or chickpea flour
1 3/4 tsp salt
2 tsp cumin
1 tsp ground coriander
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
Pinch of ground cardamom
1 tsp baking powder (optional - makes the falafel more fluffy)
Vegetable oil for frying \- grapeseed, sunflower, avocado, canola, and peanut oils all work well
Notes
You will also need: food processor, skillet
Prep time relates to actual time spent preparing ingredients. You'll also need 12 hours o resting time to soak the chickpeas.
Makes 30-34 falafel balls. Serving size is roughly 5 falafels each. Nutrition is calculated with the assumption that each falafel ball absorbs 1/2 tsp of oil. This is my best estimate; when they are fried at the proper temperature, the falafel absorb very little of the cooking oil. The nutritional information provided here is calculated using an app. If you have specific dietary concerns, please consult your doctor or nutritionist.
A note on freezing : I have had several readers ask about freezing this recipe. I have never tried it myself, but here are some tips left from the comments -- some readers have had good luck with freezing the mix, then thawing it the night before in the refrigerator before frying. Sometimes a little more flour or chickpea flour is needed to hold the mixture together after freezing,. Some readers have had luck with forming the balls, freezing those, then frying them straight from the freezer. Some have successfully frozen the finished cooked falafel, defrosting as needed. 
To bake falafel : Brush a baking sheet with olive oil. Heat oven to 400 degrees F. Form the falafel into flat patty-style shapes and place them on the baking sheet. Brush the top of each patty with extra virgin olive oil. Bake for 20-25 minutes, turning once halfway through baking, until golden brown.
Personally, I don’t recommend baking these, as I find it can make them dry - but some people have great luck with it. If you read through the comments you’ll find various responses from readers who have tried baking. I also don't own an air fryer, so I can't advise on that. Read through comments for others' experiences with this device. 
The following falafel-like recipe _can_ be baked without losing too much in terms of flavor/texture: Spicy Panko Chickpea Patties.
Troubleshooting : If your falafel is too hard/too crunchy on the outside, there are two possible reasons-- 1) you didn't process the mixture enough-- return the chickpea mixture to the processor to make it more paste-like. 2) the chickpeas you used were old, or they didn't soak long enough. Try buying a fresher batch of dried chickpeas next time and make sure you soak them until they're doubled in size and slightly tender.
Note : Some people like to add baking powder or baking soda to the mix to lighten up the texture inside of the falafel balls. I don’t usually add it, since the falafel is generally pretty fluffy on its own. If you would like to add it, stir 1 tsp of baking powder into the falafel mixture after it has been refrigerated.
EGYPTIAN FAVA BEAN FALAFEL : Use 1 lb. dried fava beans instead of chickpeas; cover them with cold water, soak them for at least 24 hours, then drain, rinse and peel them. You can also use a mixture of soaked fava beans and chickpeas if you wish; just make sure the weight of the dried beans adds up to 1 lb.
After the beans are soaked and rinsed, add the Classic Falafel ingredients to the processor along with the following ingredients – 1 leek, cleaned, trimmed, and quartered; ¼ cup chopped dill; ¼ cup chopped cilantro; and an additional ¾ tsp cayenne pepper. When mixture is processed to a coarse meal, pour into a bowl. Stir 2 ½ tbsp sesame seeds into the mixture with a fork until it’s evenly dispersed throughout the mixture. Refrigerate and proceed with frying. If mixture seems too “wet” when making the falafel balls, add additional flour by the teaspoonful until the mixture sticks together better. Continue with frying.


