Method
print recipe
1 
Begin by preparing the polenta dough. In a large bowl, mix together the polenta and semolina flours until well combined. Make a well in the centre and add the egg, bit by bit, until the mixture begins to come together to form a dough – this may not require all of the egg 
200g of polenta flour, stone ground
300g of semolina flour
5 eggs, beaten
2 
Knead the dough until it achieves a soft, smooth consistency, then wrap in clingfilm and leave to rest in the fridge for 30 minutes 
3 
Meanwhile, cook the peas for the asparagus filling and pea purée. Bring a small pan of salted water to the boil and simmer the peas for 2 minutes, until tender. Drain the peas and measure out 50g for the asparagus filling, setting the remaining peas to one side until needed 
150g of peas
4 
For the asparagus filling, place a frying pan over a medium heat and sauté the onion in a dash of olive oil until tender. Slice the asparagus into thin pieces and fry well until beginning to catch 
1 onion, finely chopped
olive oil
200g of white asparagus
100g of asparagus
5 
Deglaze the pan with white wine and add the cooked peas. Stir through enough milk to achieve a sauce-like consistency. Season to taste and set aside, keeping warm until ready to serve 
175ml of white wine
milk
pepper
salt
6 
For the pea cream, sauté the onion and shallot in olive oil. Add the cooked peas and season with salt and pepper, then add the vegetable stock and allow to simmer for a further 2 minutes 
1 onion, chopped
1 shallot, chopped
olive oil
pepper
salt
50ml of vegetable stock
7 
Transfer the mixture to a blender a blitz to form a smooth purée, adding a little more water or vegetable stock if required to loosen the consistency. Season well to taste and keep warm 
8 
Remove the rested polenta dough from the fridge and roll into a thin, even layer. Cut out 16–20 squares measuring roughly 6x7cm and arrange across a baking tray 
9 
Cook the polenta squares under a hot grill – or, alternatively, on a preheated barbecue – until crisp and beginning to char. While the squares are cooking, slice the green and white asparagus in half lengthways and again widthways, adding these to the hot grill and cooking until blackened 
1/2 bunch of white asparagus
1/2 bunch of asparagus
10 
To serve, drizzle a few spoonfuls of the pea cream onto each plate and place a square of crunchy polenta on top. Spoon some of the asparagus filling on top of the square and cover with another square. Repeat another 3–4 times, using up all the filling and polenta squares, and garnish with the grilled asparagus 
Discover more:
Asparagus Recipes
White asparagus Recipes
Polenta Recipes
Pea Recipes
Beetroot starter Recipes
show more
hide more
Share recipe
Alessandro Gavagna
With a love for the region of Friuli and its ingredients, Alessandro Gavagna's unique food is a perfect marriage of Italian and Slovenian cuisine.
Sign up to our newsletter now
You may also like
Alessandro Gavagna
La Subida
Asparagus 
Recipe Collection
Asparagus
Recipe Collection
Polenta
Recipe Collection
Polenta
Recipe Collection
White asparagus
Recipe Collection
Orange and almond polenta bundt cake
by Chantelle Nicholson
10 of our best asparagus recipes
by Great British Chefs
How to pickle asparagus
Barbecued asparagus with rapeseed mayonnaise
by Galton Blackiston
NAVIGATE
Home 
Italian Michelin Guide Results 2019 
Recipes 


