Ingredients for vegan Shawarma][5]
So, What Is In This Vegan Kebab?
Having said all of the above, my recipe is obviously 100% meat-free. It combines elements of all three, making kebab-style ‘meat’ from jackfruit, marinating it in spices that feature in all the above options, served with flatbread/pitta and salad.
Jackfruit (native to South-East Asia) is a nutrient-dense, eco-friendly meat alternative with a low water and carbon footprint and fairly neutral ‘melon’- like flavor. It is particularly great for emulating meaty products like pulled pork and other meaty ‘bits,’ which is great for the shaved-meat-style kebab. The texture has just enough chew, but without having an overwhelming flavor, to soak up the marinade and produce a slightly chewy, flavor-packed veg kebab.
Health Benefits Of Jackfruit
One of the most impressive things about this ingredient, though, is its nutritional value. Jackfruit is incredibly nutrient-dense and contains fairly moderate levels of almost every vitamin and mineral you need. This includes vitamin A, C, manganese, magnesium, potassium, and copper ( source).
Jackfruit also contains good levels of antioxidants and protein and may help blood sugar level control, anti-inflammatory benefits, improve immune health, and even benefit skin, gut, and heart health ( source).
Plus, this vegan shawarma recipe is far healthier than your local takeaway kebab, with far less fat, and can easily be made gluten-free too.
vegan kebab sandwich with jackfruit and veggies][6]
The Step-By-Step Instructions
Step One: Prepare the jackfruit
Add the dried jackfruit to a bowl and pour in hot water. Allow them to soak for 10-15 minutes, then drain ( skip this step if using canned jackfruit ).
Slice the jackfruit into strips. If using canned young jackfruit, shred the pieces by hand (or fork). You could also use a food processor and pulse a few times.
Step Two: Marinate it
Add all marinade ingredients to a bowl and stir with a whisk/spoon. Add the jackfruit and let it marinate for at least 15 minutes (the longer, the better).
4 step-by-step photos how to marinate jackfruit][7]
Step Three: Prepare the vegan yogurt sauce and veggies
Combine all the yogurt sauce ingredients in a bowl and mix. Then, slice the tomato, cucumber, onion, and shred the cabbage.
Step Four: Cook the jackfruit
Heat oil in a skillet and add the marinated jackfruit—Cook for 10 minutes over medium heat. Meanwhile, heat the bread in the oven or toaster.
marinated jackfruit in skillet][8]
Step Five: Assemble the sandwich
Cut open the buns or flatbread, add the jackfruit, salad veggies (sliced tomato, cucumber, cabbage, lettuce), and the vegan yogurt sauce. Sprinkle with red pepper flakes and enjoy!
For the full ingredients list, ingredient measurements, and nutritional information, read the recipe card below.
cooked jackfruit meat in sandwich][9]
How To Serve & Store
It’s best to eat the vegan kebab immediately, as the ingredients will make the flatbread soggy over time. If you prepare the jack fruit separately, then this may last a couple of days in the fridge.
Aside from serving as a sandwich, you can also serve this vegan kebab:
Over a base of pilaf rice (or this Quinoa Veggie Pilaf) with grilled peppers/tomatoes or these Stuffed Bell Peppers.
Alongside Crispy Fries for a Gyros style Souvlaki wrap.
Serve it with vegan tzatziki – or swap that out with this Cucumber Salad for a twist.
Add some Homemade Coleslaw to your vegan shawarma wrap.
Over this homemade Vegan Flatbread or with these Gluten-Free Tortillas.
doner kebab with jackfruit meat and veggies][10]
Useful Recipe Notes & Variations
Jackfruit alternative: You can use soy curls (textured soy protein) instead of jackfruit for this vegan/ vegetarian shawarma. You will also have to soak them in hot water and after 15 minutes, drain and squeeze out as much water as possible. Another alternative would be to use oyster mushrooms.
Marinade: I recommend marinating the jackfruit for a few hours (or even overnight). 15 minutes is the minimum- but the longer time will really infuse the flavors.
If you plan on making this vegan shawarma repeatedly, then I suggest making a large batch of the spices, so you don’t need to measure them out each time.
To add extra spice , optionally add a dash of chili sauce to the veg kebab.
You can easily adapt the yogurt sauce into a ‘tzatziki’ style sauce by adding cucumber to it. Alternatively, make this flavorful Yum Yum Sauce instead.
You can buy jackfruit fresh in Asian stores (though the preparation takes a long time and it’s quite smelly), canned, or even dried.
hand grabbing veg kebab with jackfuit meat and veggies][11]
Related Meat Alternative Recipes
Vegan Sausage Recipe
Meatballs with Gravy
Vegan Black Bean Burger
Meatloaf& Mushroom Sauce
Best Portobello Steaks
If you try this vegan doner kebab recipe, I’d love a comment and ★★★★★ recipe rating below. Also, don’t forget to tag me in re-creations on Instagram or Facebook with @elavegan and elavegan – I love seeing your recreations.
vegan kebab sandwiches with jackfruit and veggies][12]
Vegan Kebab
Author: Michaela Vais
This vegan kebab is made from marinated jackfruit served as a sandwich within pita, salad veggies, and a tangy vegan garlic yogurt sauce. The result is a comforting, satisfying meal worthy of a vegan feast. Plus, this recipe is dairy-free, gluten-free, and is the ultimate veg shawarma for meat-free eaters!
5 from 1 vote
Print Recipe Pin Recipe
Prep Time 20 mins
Cook Time 10 mins
Total Time 30 mins
Course Main Course, Side
Cuisine Middle Eastern, Turkish
Servings 2 kebabs
Calories 507 kcal
Ingredients
1x2x3x
2 large buns flatbread, or pita bread (gluten-free if needed)
1 1/2 tbsp oil
3.5 oz dried jackfruit or one 20 oz can young jackfruit, drained and rinsed (see notes)
1 tomato sliced
1/2 cucumber sliced
1/4 onion sliced
1/4 cup red cabbage shredded
1/4 cup white cabbage shredded
Lettuce
Red pepper flakes
Marinade:
1/3 cup tomato sauce or BBQ sauce
1 tbsp tamari or coconut aminos
1/2 tbsp balsamic vinegar (optional)
1 tsp paprika
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp onion powder
1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/2 tsp smoked paprika
Oregano, thyme, salt & pepper to taste
Vegan Yogurt Sauce:
1/2 cup dairy-free yogurt or vegan sour cream
2 garlic cloves minced
Lemon juice to taste
Salt & pepper to taste


