Method
print recipe
1 
Preheat the oven to 170°C/gas mark 5. Grease a bundt tin 
2 
To make the cake, place the ground almonds, polenta, flour and baking powder in a bowl and mix together. Whisk the aquafaba in a stand mixer until stiff peaks form. Gradually add the caster sugar and continue to whisk until glossy and all the sugar grains have dissolved 
200g of ground almonds
50g of polenta, yellow quick-cook
80g of plain flour
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
100g of aquafaba
100g of caster sugar
3 
Cut the zested and peeled orange into quarters (reserve the zest for garnishing). Place the olive oil, golden syrup and quartered orange into a blender and blitz until a smooth paste has formed. Add the melted butter, then add this mixture to the dry ingredients. Fold gently until just combined 
100g of olive oil
50g of golden syrup
100g of non-dairy butter, melted
1 large orange, zested and peeled
4 
Fold in the aquafaba meringue then pour the mixture into the greased cake tin. Bake for 35–45 minutes until a skewer inserted comes out clean. If the cake is beginning to brown too much, cover with foil and continue to cook 
5 
Allow to cool slightly then turn out onto a cooling rack. Mix the marmalade with the zest and juice of the second orange and pour the mixture over the cake 
1 tbsp of marmalade
1 large orange, zested and juiced
6 
To make the yogurt créme, whisk the remaining aquafaba until stiff in a stand mixer. Add the caster sugar and whisk until glossy. Add the xanthan gum and continue whisking until stiff. Whisk the coconut yoghurt in a bowl then fold into the meringue 
150g of coconut yoghurt
80g of aquafaba
40g of caster sugar
1/2 tsp xanthan gum
7 
Serve a slice of cake with the yogurt créme and garnish with the reserved orange zest 
Discover more:
Orange Recipes
Almond Recipes
Polenta Recipes
Marmalade Recipes
Orange Recipes
show more
hide more
Share recipe
Chantelle Nicholson
From New Zealand law student to group operations director and now sole owner and chef-patron of Tredwells in London, Chantelle Nicholson’s hard work and determination has seen her rise through the ranks of Marcus Wareing’s restaurant empire. 
Sign up to our newsletter now
You may also like
Chantelle Nicholson
Tredwells
Almond
Recipe Collection
Orange 
Recipe Collection
Almond
Recipe Collection
Vegan dessert
Recipe Collection
Vegan curry
Recipe Collection
Italian vegan
Recipe Collection
Top food trends for 2018
by Great British Chefs
Vegetable pulao
by Alfred Prasad
Great British Chefs White Paper: a rich and complex relationship
by Great British Chefs
NAVIGATE
Home 
Recipes 
Michelin star results 2021 
Chefs 
Restaurant map 


