Ingredients
Holidays & Events
More _Chevron_
Story Saved
To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then View saved recipes.
Close Alert
Close
Sign In
Search
Search
Recipes & Menus
Expert Advice
Ingredients
Holidays & Events
Video
Mazzamurru
January 24, 2012
Email
Pinterest
Print
Save Story
To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then View saved recipes.
Email
Pinterest
Print
Save Story
To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then View saved recipes.
Email
Pinterest
Print
Save Story
To revisit this recipe, visit My Account, then View saved recipes.
The poorest, perhaps, of all Sard dishes, some version of mazzamurru is often a shepherd’s supper or humble sustenance for a bountyless hunter’s family. Made of whatever stuffs might be at hand, the commonalities of mazzamurru are rich ewe’s milk, some rough bread, and shards of sharp, salty cheese. The ornaments are often a handful of wild grasses or a few sun-dried tomatoes, some olives, a crush of dried herbs. Present the mazzamurru with a bowlful of some simple tomato sauce or, better, no sauce at all, its nakedness tasting of such goodness.
Ingredients
serves 4
Trenchers of good country bread, with its crusts intact, 8 1/2 inches thick by 6 inches long
2 cups whole milk
2 cups heavy cream
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
Freshly cracked pepper
1 1/2 cups just-grated pecorino
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 fat cloves garlic, peeled, crushed, and minced
1 small, dried red chile pepper, crushed, or 1/3 to 1/2 teaspoon dried chile flakes
Step 1
Pave the bottom of a large, shallow terra-cotta or enameled cast-iron casserole with the bread. Warm the milk and the cream to the point just before it simmers. Permit the milk/cream to cool for a minute or two, then beat in the eggs. Pour half the still-hot milk/cream/egg mixture over the bread. Sprinkle on half the sea salt, generous grindings of pepper, and half the pecorino. Repeat the procedure with the remaining bread, hot milk/cream/egg, sea salt, more pepper, and the pecorino. Cover the pudding with a clean kitchen towel and permit the bread to inhale its warm, creamy bath for 1/2 hour.
Step 2
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.
Step 3
In a small sauté pan over a medium flame, warm the olive oil and soften the garlic, taking care not to let it color. Add the chile pepper and roll it about for 1 minute, scenting the oil. Just before baking the pudding, thread the perfumed oil evenly over it.
Step 4
Bake the pudding for 35 to 40 minutes or until it is deeply golden.
How would you rate Mazzamurru?
Leave a Review
Tell us what you think
TagsBreadSauceGarlicBakeSimmer
Epicurious][2]
Since 1995, Epicurious has been the ultimate food resource for the home cook, with daily kitchen tips, fun cooking videos, and, oh yeah, over 33,000 recipes.
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
YouTube
Instagram
More from Epicurious
Newsletters
Epicurious Cookware
Epicurious Wine
Help
Connect
Subscription Services
Careers
Press Center
Advertising
Masthead
Contact Us
Site Map
Accessibility Help
Condé Nast Store
Condé Nast Spotlight
Do Not Sell My Personal Info
2021 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. _Epicurious_ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices
Food Innovation Group
1]: /verso/static/epicurious/assets/logo-header.1e659bf354003ebd2b7b6f888ed9b3e7d54bb8cd.svg
2]: /verso/static/epicurious/assets/logo-reverse.88af45111b937e83bd6750ff4ba35acfc68179e0.svg



