brunede kartofler or caramelized browned potatoes is a delicious danish side-dish that my husband introduced me to. we have this every year with our danish christmas dinner and i love it! this brunede kartofler also goes really well with pork chops or pork tenderloin. they end up tasting kind of like a sweet potato. they have a sweet caramelized coating on every potato.
1/4 cup butter
2 tbsp. water
update: we have actually found that it is easier to add the sugar and butter in the pan at the same time (omit the water completely) and let it all melt together until the sugar dissolves and turns a deep caramel color. this way you can actually stir it without ruining it. in fact, it is best if you stir it often so it doesn’t burn. this isn’t the “authentic” way but we have found the end result is the same!
calories: 394kcal | carbohydrates: 67g | protein: 7g | fat: 12g | saturated fat: 7g | cholesterol: 31mg | sodium: 118mg | potassium: 1184mg | fiber: 6g | sugar: 15g | vitamin a: 355iu | vitamin c: 55.4mg | calcium: 37mg | iron: 2.5mgan interesting tradition that might not be that common anymore is to hide an almond in the rice pudding, and whoever gets it in their bowl receives a gift. some also say that if you get the almond in your bowl, you will be married before next christmas… the second recipe, ‘apelsinris’, simply translates into ‘orange rice’ which i think is more of an old fashioned way of making it. my inspiration for this recipe comes from a cookbook from 1932 by jenny åkerström called ‘prinsessornas kokbok’ – ‘the princesses cookbook’.
as we love beetroot, we decided to make this delicious beetroot risotto with the mushrooms. i totally love risotto, but it also always reminds me of a very uncomfortable situation: it was at my grandfather´s birthday last year and we celebrated in a restaurant with the whole family – which sounds like we would be a big family, but actually it was just my grandparents, my uncle, my dad and his girlfriend. anyways, i wanted to order a risotto and since parmesan cheese is the devil of histamine i kindly asked if they could cook it without. the waiter was so extremly unfriendly, that i was totally shocked. he just laught at me, saying why would i order a risotto if i can´t have parmesan cheese?! very nice, right? so i ended up being shocked and angry and eating nothing. and who says that you can´t make a delicious risotto without parmesan cheese?! we used a  truffle pecorino in this recipe (we are so addicted!)  and i think it makes it even more delicious, so give it a try guys!
500ml water
olive oil
clean the mushrooms with kitchen paper and/or vegetable brush, cut into smaller pieces and fry for a few minutes in a pan with some olive oil. season with chili powder and nutmeg.
serve risotto on a plate, garnished with some mushrooms and truffle peconrino and seasoned with a bit pepper.
wir essen risotto wirklich sehr gerne, aber es erinnert mich auch immer an eine sehr unangenehme situation: wir haben im resaturant den geburtstag meines großvaters gefeiert und ich wollte mir ein risotto bestellen. aber parmesan käse (eigentlich in jedem risotto) ist ja bekanntlich der teufel bei histamin intoleranz, also habe ich freundlich gefragt, ob es möglich wäre auch ein risotto ohne parmesankäse zu bekommen.  der kellner war so unglaublich unfreundlich, dass ich einfach nur geschockt war. er hat einfach über mich gelacht und mich zynisch gefragt wieso man denn überhaupt auf die idee käme ein risotto zu bestellen wenn man keinen parmesankäse verträgt. sehr freundlich, oder? aber wer sagt schon, dass man ein risotto nicht ohne parmesankäse kochen kann?! wir haben für diese rezept jungen trüffel pecorino benutzt und es war einfach köstlich.
most tahini cookies recipes use softened butter and goes into the traditional route of creaming sugar with butter. i've decided to upgrade my tahini cookies by browning the butter. browning butter is so easy and takes just 10 minutes of your time
browning butter is easy to make and takes no time so you better be there right next to it and do not leave it alone. browned butter is simply cooking butter until it is nutty with bold flavor.
cut butter into tablespoons and place them into your pot over medium heat. stir consistently to ensure even cooking.
the butter will melt and foam then bubbles, keep stirring.
in about 7 minutes butter will turn amber brown with some bits at the bottom of the pan. remove immediately and pour into a heat proof bowl.
refrigerate the browned butter until it solidifies, it takes about 1 hour.
cookies step by step
in a deep bowl, add browned butter and beat until fluffy then add sugars. beat sugars and butter together until combined.
pour in tahini, egg and vanilla extract and beat.
in a separate bowl, combine flour, baking soda and baking powder. add dry ingredients to the tahini mixture gradually.
stir mixture with a wooden spoon until you have a consistent soft dough. cover directly with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes and up to 3 days.
scoop the dough with a small ice cream scoop and roll into a ball.
press the dough lightly into sesame seeds to cover.
you can also add some chocolate chip cookies to make chocolate chip tahini cookies.
arrange on a baking sheet 2-3 inches apart as they spread. bake in a preheated oven until the edges are light brown while the middles are paler.
brown butter in light-colored pan, this is very important especially if you are a beginner.
if you keep your dough in the fridge for too long it will be rock hard. that's ok, just take it out and let it come to room temperature.
course: dessert, snackcuisine: middle east prep time: 30 minutescook time: 15 minuteschilling time: 1 hour 30 minutestotal time: 2 hours 15 minutes servings: 24 cookies calories: 114.2kcal author: amira
calories: 114.2kcal | protein: 1.7g | fat: 6.7g | saturated fat: 2.8g | polyunsaturated fat: 1.4g | monounsaturated fat: 2.2g | cholesterol: 18.2mg | sodium: 35.8mg | potassium: 45.7mg | fiber: 0.6g | sugar: 7.9g
i’m overjoyed that you have stopped by! my hope is to introduce you to new flavors, creative ways and fresh takes on favorites. to help you create food with style that will bring everyone around your kitchen table. from weeknight dinners for crazy busy days to desserts with the “wow” factor, and classic comforts from the mediterranean. one thing in common, they are all recipes that have been tried and tested by family and friends.
lebanese rice is basically a rice pilaf that’s made up of three ingredients: long grain white rice, vermicelli noodles and butter or olive oil (or a combination of both). typically, i only season it with salt. but sometimes, i also like to add a dash of cinnamon either before or after cooking. then i garnish with fresh parsley, and toasted nuts like almonds and/or pine nuts.
this rice pilaf is commonly called middle eastern rice or arabic rice. it’s a standard (and possibly the most popular) side dish in that region. we typically serve it with meat dishes like kafta and shawarma, but we also use it as a base to accompany many of our stews. that’s actually how we mostly eat it in my house. it’s fluffy, nutty and versatile – basically my ultimate carb weakness!
vermicelli: this is basically short thin pasta noodles that is iconic of lebanese rice. in fact, this dish is sometimes called vermicelli rice because of the important role the vermicelli plays. if you can’t find vermicelli pasta, you can use cappellini (thinner than spaghetti) and just break it up into smaller pieces.
before you begin the cooking process, it’s important to rinse the rice. you want to rinse the rice until the water runs clear. then soak it in a new batch of water anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes, depending on how much time you have. if you must skip the soaking, that’s fine, but don’t skip the rinsing process.
fry the vermicelli pasta. while toasting the vermicelli, stir frequently and keep a close eye on it so that it turns a deep golden brown without burning. the longer you allow it to toast, the more nutty the flavor will be.
immediately add the rice on top, season with salt and maybe add some cinnamon if you’d like.
stir all the ingredients together, and then add hot water at a 2:1 ratio. bring the water to a boil, then reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and allow the rice 15 minutes to cook at the lowest temperature.
once the rice fully cooked, turn the heat off, but don’t uncover the pot. you’ll want to leave the rice undisturbed for 5 minutes to allow the steam to finish cooking the rice. then you can uncover the pot and fluff with a fork.
when you fluff it with a fork, you’ll notice the fluffy and delicate texture of the lebanese rice. you’re now ready to serve it with your main dish.
soak the rice if you have time. you can use a fine mesh strainer to rinse the rice and rub the grains of rice between your fingers. then transfer the rice to a large bowl and allow it to soak with water for at least 20 minutes. this helps eliminate excess starch from the rice and allows for even cooking for each grain of rice (on the inside and outside) which all means fluffy non-sticky rice!
use long grain rice (like basmati), and not short grain rice. the difference in the grain size will ensure that the rice doesn’t get clumpy. i would also recommend cooking the rice with the vermicelli for an extra minute before adding the water. you want to coat the rice with the olive oil, which adds to the toasted flavor and reduces any clump factor.
stir vermicelli frequently for even toasting. not only are you looking for a deep golden brown color, but you also want to make sure that all the little noodles are evenly toasted. this helps to even out the flavor and gives it an overall nutty toasted taste. just make sure to keep a close eye on it it so it doesn’t burn.
parsley optional, for garnish
the charm of dr. shakshuka is evident from the moment you enter. the restaurant is housed in an aging building in the old port city of jaffa. it’s buzzing all day long with local patrons as well as tourists, everybody eager to taste the “tripolitanian”-style cooking. the owner bino gabso was born to a libyan family that immigrated to israel in 1949. he’s been serving shakshuka and other north-african favorites to enthusiastic restaurant patrons in jaffa for the past 18 years.
i can’t very well write a blog about shakshuka without sharing my own recipe! this is a basic, simple shakshuka spiced just the way i like it. if you’re looking for variations on flavor, different ingredients can be added to the tomato base—jalapeños, green chilies, parsley, red pepper flakes, smoked paprika, additional vegetables or anything else that sounds tasty to you. i’ve even made it with a spinach/tomato base that turned out great.  use your imagination!
shakshuka can be eaten for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. for breakfast, serve with warm crusty bread or pita bread that can be dipped into the sauce (if you are gluten-intolerant or celebrating passover, skip the bread). for dinner, serve with a green side salad for a light, easy meal. 
nutritional information should be considered an estimate only; please consult a registered dietician, nutritionist, or your physician for specific health-related questions. read more here. please note that the recipe above is published using a recipe card plugin, with preexisting software which can auto-calculate metric measurements, as well as change the number of servings. metric conversions and changes to the number of servings (resulting in different ingredient amounts) will only appear in the ingredient list, and are not changed within the step-by-step directions of the recipe.
please note: we typically moderate comments once per month, so please don't expect a quick response. if you'd like more direct access to me and my team, consider joining my exclusive culinary community. you'll get access to member's only recipes and videos, prompt and cheerful cooking support, a private social community of passionate home cooks, and an ad-free experience on my site! learn more here.
1 onion, finely chopped
salt and pepper to taste
1 1/2 handfuls of fresh parsley, finely chopped
3/4 cup plain flour
method
in a separate bowl, toss together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt. sift the flour mixture into the wet ingredients and stir by hand until combined. fold in the chopped nuts.
pour the batter into a greased 9×13″ glass baking dish. bake for 45-55 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.
most readers love this recipe as is. though i have received feedback from a few readers that have reduced the amount of granulated sugar by half (or even omitted it altogether) because they found the cake too sweet. so depending on how sweet your persimmons are and your taste preference, feel free to adjust the amount of granulated sugar accordingly.
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda, dissolved in 1 1/2 tablespoons hot water
oven-dried persimmon slices, for garnish
cook's notes
we steamed our pudding in an antique metal pudding mold with a fitted lid. a ceramic pudding basin or mixing bowl, covered tightly with buttered parchment paper then with foil, will also work.
equipment: pot, slotted spoon, baking sheet, parchment paper, stand mixer, whisk, silicone spatula
when you are working with very ripe and soft hachiya persimmons, the best way to get to that sweet flesh is to scoop it out. slice off the top of the fruit, including the leaves, and then grab a spoon. the flesh should come out very easily and taste sweet. if it has a chalky taste, your persimmons may not be ripe quite yet.
add the flesh into a saucepan with sugar, bourbon, and some whole spices. using cinnamon sticks and star anise allows you to infuse some flavor into the jam, without overpowering the delicate persimmon. bring the mixture to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar.
then let it boil for five minutes. stir it every once in a while to prevent sticking, but mostly, you are just letting all those flavors come together. it should start to thicken and get a bit sticky. at this point, use a slotted spoon to remove the cinnamon sticks and star anise.
continue boiling for another five minutes. you want to stir it a bit more frequently, since there is less liquid, which means it will more easily stick. also, use a spatula or spoon to break apart any large fruit pieces. the jam should be thickening up and gelling quite a bit at this point.
turn off the heat, and add a pinch of salt to taste. the salt will help bring out all the other flavors, but you don’t want to use a ton. let the jam cool for a few minutes, and then transfer it carefully to a glass jar or bowl. set this aside to cool fully.
how to make rye thumbprint cookies
while the jam is cooling, it’s time to start the cookie dough. this is a good time to preheat your oven and line a baking sheet with parchment. even though this recipe features rye flour, the method of making these cookies is fairly standard.
start by using room temperature butter, and creaming it together with sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer. this allows tiny air pockets to form in the butter, which will help make your cookies fluffy and thick.
add in the egg and almond extract. i really love the flavor of almond in cookies, and in this recipe, i decided to feature it. the nuttiness pairs really nicely with the sweet and fragrant persimmon jam. however, you can make a nut free version using vanilla, which will have a different flavor.
mix everything together until it’s smooth. then begin whisking your dry ingredients together in a separate bowl. as with most cookies, we’re using the wet + dry method here. adding the dry ingredients all together prevents overmixing and pockets of salt or baking powder.
we are using a combination of rye and all-purpose flour. the white flour helps with texture, whereas the rye is mainly for flavor. it’s a complex taste, which adds a maltiness and nuttiness to the cookies. this works well with the almond flavor, and helps to highlight the sweet persimmons.
add the dry ingredients into the mixer, and stir until just combined. the dough will be fairly thick, and you may need to switch to a silicone spatula toward the end if your mixer is struggling. once done, form 1-inch balls and place them a couple inches apart on a baking sheet.
freeze the entire baking sheet for 10 minutes. this step is not optional, and it will help your cookies be thick and fluffy instead of flat. starting with cold butter allows time for the cookies to puff up before the butter melts and they begin to spread.
bake the cookies for about 8 minutes. i found that 8 exactly was perfect, but every oven is different. when they come out of the oven, they won’t look done and will be quite soft. that’s exactly what we’re going for.
use a cork, or similarly sized object, to create a depression in the center of each cookie. add a small spoonful of the cooled persimmon jam into the hole. then let the cookies cool thoroughly on a rack.
if you want to use fuyus to make your persimmon jam, they should be very ripe. even so, they may still take longer to cook down into a jam consistency. begin cooking the fruit with only the bourbon, until it has significantly softened. then add the sugar and spices.
you will also need to use more fuyu than hachiya persimmons, because they are a smaller fruit. the tomato-shaped fuyus are about a half to two-thirds the size of a hachiya, so use 3-4 to make your jam.
once cooled, you can enjoy these thumbprints immediately, or you can store them in the fridge for a few days. because of the fresh jam, i don’t recommend storing them at room temperature. however, let them sit out for about ten minutes after removing them from the fridge to thaw slightly.
you can serve these cookies as a snack or dessert. they would be delicious with a warm mug of chai white hot chocolate and a cozy book. for a little more kick, try a hazelnut eggnog or an amaretto old fashioned, which both feature bourbon.
these would also make the perfect addition to any cookie tray! try combining them with a few of my other favorites like cherry chocolate chip cookies, miso peanut butter cup cookies, and cream cheese oatmeal cookie sandwiches.
cup rye flour
tsp salt
1 tsp baking powder
you can make the cookie dough 2-3 days in advance and store covered in the fridge. let it come to room temperature before forming the balls. 
store baked and filled cookies in the fridge for 3-4 days. let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes before serving.
cup almond milk
for the dry ingredients:
1 ½ cup flour
cup almond flour
tsp salt
in a mixing bowl place spelled flower, semolina, grounded almonds and baking powder. stir. in a separate bowl place the wet ingredients – orange juice, olive oil, eggs and vanilla extract. beat until the mixture is well combined.
fill each of the muffins tins with the muffins mixture almost to the end. bake for 17-20 minutes and allow it to cool for another 10 minutes. after cooling off, go with a knife around the muffins edges to help the muffins to be released, and then turn over the tray over a cooling net. pour some of the sugar and rosemary syrup on each of the muffins.
update: we have actually found that it is easier to add the sugar and butter in the pan at the same time (omit the water completely) and let it all melt together until the sugar dissolves and turns a deep caramel color. this way you can actually stir it without ruining it. in fact, it is best if you stir it often so it doesn’t burn. this isn’t the “authentic” way but we have found the end result is the same!
fattoush salad makes a frequent appearance on the middle eastern dinner table. a simple chopped salad dressed in a zesty lime vinaigrette. homemade pita chips serve as croutons! see the video and step-by-step for how to make fattoush below.
scant ¼ tsp ground allspice
variations: fattoush salad dressing often include pomegranate molasses. if that's available to you, add 1 to 2 teaspoons to the dressing, it really does make it extra special.  for the salad, you can also add more herbs or other greens such as arugula (not traditional to fattoush but wonderful!)
to bake the pita chips instead, follow baking instructions in my homemade pita chip recipe and season with kosher salt and sumac when ready.
toast the pita bread in your toaster oven until it is crisp but not browned.
heat 3 tablespoon of olive oil in a large pan. break the pita bread into pieces, and place in the heated oil. fry briefly until browned, tossing frequently. add salt, pepper and ½ teaspoon of sumac. remove the pita chips from the heat and place on paper towels to drain.
to make the lime vinaigrette, whisk together the lime juice, olive oil and spices in a small bowl.
dress the salad with the vinaigrette and toss lightly.
beef kofta is typically skewered and grilled, but i was feeling a little, oh, salty – so i made meatballs instead. i’m a rebel, i tell ya. the meatballs are seared, then baked. i do the whole process in my trusty lodge 10″ cast iron skillet (affiliate link), start to finish. first, i brown the meatballs in a bit of avocado oil in two batches. then i transfer all of the meatballs back to the cast iron in a single layer, cooking oil and juices and all, and bake them for 15-20 minutes, or until the internal temperature reaches 170*. total baking time will depend on their size. this takes a bit longer than grilling, but they stay a lot juicier this way.
i finish off this dish with my go-to tahini sauce and serve it over quinoa tabbouleh (click for the recipe on my ig page!) or cauliflower tabbouleh for a whole30 compliant meal. leftover meatballs are an awesome midday snack, served cold and dipped in tahini sauce. you can also serve over cauliflower rice with a simple cucumber and tomato salad for a completely paleo and/or whole 30 compliant meal.
c. water
c. olive oil
sea salt, to taste
cracked black pepper, to taste
store-bought lemon juice always tastes stale and sad, and it will make your hummus taste stale and sad. buy lemons and your humus will taste fresh and delicious. i almost always add another tablespoon of lemon juice to my hummus for extra flavor before i plate it, but i’ll leave the tang factor up to you.
this is another trick from solomonov—if you mince the garlic in the food processor or blender with the lemon juice and let that mixture rest for a few minutes, the garlic will lose its harsh, raw bite and mellow out. i tried it before and after, and he’s right! here’s serious eats’ scientific explanation for why this works.
teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste
2 to 4 tablespoons ice water, more as needed
teaspoon ground cumin
any of the following garnishes:  drizzle of olive oil or zhoug sauce, sprinkle of ground sumac or paprika, chopped fresh parsley
how to cook dry chickpeas in a hurry for this recipe: in a large saucepan, combine 5 ounces (¾ cup) dried chickpeas and ½ teaspoon baking soda, and fill the pot with water. bring the mixture to a boil over high heat and skim off the surface foam as needed. continue boiling over medium-high, adding more water if you start running out, until the chickpeas are very mushy and falling apart, about 1 hour to 1 hour 15 minutes. drain in a fine-mesh colander, rinse under cool running water, and drain well before using. start the recipe at step 2.
it was a ridiculously simple recipe and i served  it with anything from my plank salmon, to my lemony chicken.  personally, i never needed a side dish for it.  i could eat it right out of the pot as a meal.
the best part was it can be frozen easily and also used in salads, soups or even as a binder in crab cakes or fish cakes.
it starts out with a tablespoon of butter, 1 shallot and the zest of half a lemon.
over medium heat, we are going to melt the butter and let the butter get infused with the flavors of the shallot and the lemon zest. give this about 3 minutes.  again, you are sweating the aromatics not browning them.
throw  in a cup of your israel couscous and toss everything together, ensuring your couscous is covered by the shallot and butter mixture.  essentially you are toasting them a bit.  do this for about 2 minutes.
pour in 1 and 1/4 cups of chicken broth, stock or water.  i find the chicken stocks and broths give it a more savory flavor.  season with salt and pepper.  bring to a simmer and cook, covered for 10 minutes.
fluff with a fork.  this will ensure you have light and fluffy individual grains.  sprinkle in 1/4 cup of parmesan cheese and mix with a fork.  taste for seasoning.
serve in a bowl with some more lemon zest, chopped parsley and nice shredding of parmesan cheese on top.
make the tahini dressing first, so that the flavors have a few minutes to blend while you’re making the rest of the salad. smash or roughly chop two cloves of garlic, then add them to a blender with 1/3 cup tahini, 1/3 cup water, 1/4 cup lemon juice, 1/2 tsp cumin, 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper, and 1/2 tsp salt. blend the ingredients until smooth and no large chunks of garlic remain. refrigerate the dressing until ready to use.
next, it’s time to cook the bulgur. again, if you can’t find bulgur (i got mine from the bulk bins at the grocery), you can use couscous or quinoa. i used 1/2 cup of dry bulgur for this salad.
toast the bulgur slightly before cooking it to make it a little more scrumptious. just add it to a small sauce pot and cook and stir over medium heat for about two minutes. because there is no moisture in the pot at this point, it will toast the grains. finally, add a cup of water, let it come back up to a boil (which will be fast because the pot is already hot), then add a lid and turn the heat down to low. let it simmer on low for 20 minutes.
after 20 minutes, fluff the bulgur then let it sit in the fridge for about 5-10 minutes to cool. leave the lid off while it’s in there so the excess moisture evaporates away. that way you’ll have nice little chewy bits, rather than sticky wet bits.
the dream of any passionate baker would be to possess a tonir. but otherwise, it is still possible to make the lavash bread recipe in different ways, whether in a pan, in the oven, on a griddle, or on an electric pan. when using a pizza stone, place it at the bottom of a hot oven 1 hour before lavash is baked.
teaspoon salt
1 water spray bottle (with lukewarm water)
one of my favorite recipes for warm-weather entertaining, these chicken kabobs are marinated in a tangy blend of greek yogurt, lemon, garlic and spices and then grilled until golden brown. they’re wonderful over a bed of golden basmati rice pilaf with dried fruit and almonds (pictured) or on top of a greek salad. just be sure to make extra — the first time i made these kabobs for a crowd, i actually ran out of food!
the only time-consuming part of the recipe is threading the meat and onions onto skewers. if you’re in a time crunch, feel free to skip the skewers and grill the chicken thighs whole (the red onions can be cut into large wedges and placed directly on the grill as well).
i’ve specified boneless skinless chicken thighs for this recipe; they’re juicier and more flavorful than chicken breasts, and they work better in this type of yogurt and lemon-based marinade. they’re also much easier to cook without drying out.
step-by-step instructions
begin by combining the marinade ingredients in a small bowl.
stir to combine.
next, prep the chicken thighs by trimming any excess fat and gristle. don’t worry about getting every last bit of fat; most of it will melt off on the grill. then cut the meat into bite-size pieces. i think it’s easiest to use kitchen shears as opposed to a knife.
thread the chicken pieces onto skewers alternating with the red onions.
place the kabobs on a baking sheet lined with foil, and then brush the marinade all over the meat, coating well. cover and let the kabobs sit in the fridge for at least 8 hours or overnight.
cook time: 15 minutes
total time: 50 minutes, plus at least 8 hours to marinate
ingredients
1 cup plain whole milk greek yogurt
2-1/2 to 3 pounds boneless skinless chicken thighs, trimmed of excess fat and cut into 1-1/2-inch pieces (see note)
vegetable oil, for greasing the grill
my meal came with a middle eastern lentil soup that was simple, but gloriously flavorful and comforting. one spoonful and i was in love. my husband and son had to try of course! they both said "you need to make this at home." so here we are. on a cold but sunny day, i experimented and succeeded. i got a thumbs up from both of them. this recipe only has a few basic ingredients, but it is so delicious, you would think otherwise. the idea to use allspice was my son's. i agree that it gives a lot of depth to the overall flavor. the lemon infusion at the end brightens up the flavors of this fabulous middle eastern lentil soup. one great thing about lentils is that they don't take as long to soften as other beans, so this middle eastern soup can be made in very little time.
lentils are thought to have originated in central asia, and one of the first foods to have been cultivated nearly 8,000 years ago. lentils are mentioned in the bible on a couple of occasions: jacob traded his brother esau his birthright for a bowl of lentils. jacob was hungry after spending all day working in the fields. lentils were also used by the jewish people to make a bread during the exile years in babylon. today the leading producers of lentils are: india, syria, china and turkey. lentils are super healthy! 1 cup of lentils has 18 grams of protein and 16 grams of dietary fiber. lentils are also rich in b vitamins, potassium, calcium and zinc.
gather all your ingredients and have them measured, chopped and ready to go: dry green lentils, olive oil, onion, celery, carrots, garlic, vegetable broth, cumin, salt, allspice, lemon juice. this is a very simple and quick recipe so it is good to have it prepared.
in a soup pot heat the olive oil on medium and add the onions, carrots celery and garlic. sauté until the onion is translucent.
add 4 cups of the vegetable broth.
add the lentils and bring to a boil and cook until the vegetables are soft. 
the lentils will expand and check the carrots with a spoon and see if they are soft.
add the cumin, salt and allspice. turn down the heat to low and allow to simmer for 30-40 minutes.
using an immersion blender break up the solids until mostly smooth.
add the remaining vegetable broth and simmer for an additional 15 minutes. add the lemon juice before serving.
servings: change to adjust-> servings
chopped fresh flat leaf parsley, for garnish
if you are only making one serving, you only need a few of each item. if you're making a platter to feel multiple people, assume 2-4 pieces of each item per person. with so many edibles on the plate, you'll fill up fast!
amount per serving: calories: 701total fat: 48gsaturated fat: 24gtrans fat: 1gunsaturated fat: 19gcholesterol: 323mgsodium: 1924mgcarbohydrates: 29gfiber: 5gsugar: 12gprotein: 41gfilling the dough
rolling up the dough
ingredients;
frozen corn – 4 tbsp
onion – ½
red chilli flakes – 1 tbsp
coriander – ½ small bunch
boiled potatoes – 3
salt – to taste
batter to dip the nuggets;
corn flour – ¼ cup
maida – ¼ cup
oil – to deep fry
potato nuggets
tsp fast-action dried yeast
tsp golden caster sugar
advertisement
how to stretch pizza dough
looking to up your pizza game? try making it at home and learn how to stretch pizza dough with our expert tips.
goes well with
chopped pistachios (to taste)
garlic to taste
salt and pepper to taste
salt, to taste
fry the vermicelli pasta. while toasting the vermicelli, stir frequently and keep a close eye on it so that it turns a deep golden brown without burning. the longer you allow it to toast, the more nutty the flavor will be.
immediately add the rice on top, season with salt and maybe add some cinnamon if you’d like.
stir all the ingredients together, and then add hot water at a 2:1 ratio. bring the water to a boil, then reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and allow the rice 15 minutes to cook at the lowest temperature.
once the rice fully cooked, turn the heat off, but don’t uncover the pot. you’ll want to leave the rice undisturbed for 5 minutes to allow the steam to finish cooking the rice. then you can uncover the pot and fluff with a fork.
when you fluff it with a fork, you’ll notice the fluffy and delicate texture of the lebanese rice. you’re now ready to serve it with your main dish.
soak the rice if you have time. you can use a fine mesh strainer to rinse the rice and rub the grains of rice between your fingers. then transfer the rice to a large bowl and allow it to soak with water for at least 20 minutes. this helps eliminate excess starch from the rice and allows for even cooking for each grain of rice (on the inside and outside) which all means fluffy non-sticky rice!
parsley optional, for garnish
cook time
total time
50 minutes
ingredients
all purpose flour
lime or blood orange slices for garnish, plus some of those drink umbrellas
brenda — whoops! meant to add that. i got about 2 cups from 6 oranges. i have a juicer, however, which extracts more juice per orange than hand-squeezing will.
trevor — no, he was juicing oranges for orange juice for his snack. we simply used the leftovers more… creatively. i hardly think that this is something that will turn the child into a deviant.
cup hot water
add all ingredients to shopping list
sear in batches – don’t crowd the pan! less prawns = better colour = easier to handle = won’t overcook. (pro tip: we use butter and oil for searing. butter = better flavour, but if you only use butter, it burns at the high heat required to make prawns golden)
chop the garlic, don’t use a garlic press. garlic press = finer garlic that’s also juicy which will burn at the high heat we use to cook the prawns;
fresh is best, but frozen is really great nowadays! 5 years ago, i never would have said that. but nowadays, there are very good quality frozen prawns. look for big, plump frozen ones – they work best if using frozen;
cook in batches – don’t crowd the pan! crowded pan = stewed prawns rather than seared. we want to sear for maximum flavour. remember, colour = flavour! so cook half the prawns then remove, then cook the other half. also, cooking less prawns at a time is easier to handle ie turning them one at a time.
use tongs not a spatula – turn each prawn individually, don’t stir them;
sear in butter + oil – butter provides flavour, but butter burns at high heat. to counteract this, we use a combo of butter + oil here;
wine will sizzle and steam! the pan should be super hot when you pour the wine in so it sizzles and evaporates quickly (30 seconds or less). if your prawns simmer in a pool of wine, then you’ll simmer away the seared surface = loss of flavour
be generous with lemon! seafood loves lemon. i make garlic prawns with a medium amount of lemon in it, but i always serve with extra wedges for people to serve themselves.
use this creamy garlic prawns recipe – same garlic marinated prawns, plus a garlicky creamy parmesan sauce!
1. prawns - if using frozen, thaw and drain well to remove excess moisture otherwise the prawns won't go golden, they will just stew and get watery in the pan. use paper towels to pat dry.
cook time
additional time
ingredients
some would say to go for it, but it is completely unnecessary. for added flavor you may want to add a tiny bit of saffron – but dose the amounts properly or the flavor may end up being overpowering. for this recipe, 1/4 of a teaspoon is more than enough. add it to the meat once it is cooked.
grated dairy free chocolate
seasoning: salt, onion powder, garlic powder
cook the pasta – drain and set aside.
make the cheese sauce – in a pot/pan add butter and flour then add in the rest of the sauce ingredients.
combine – add the cooked pasta back in, mix together and allow to cook for a few more mins. finally add in the broccoli florets.
serve and enjoy!
prevent your screen from going dark





