https://traditionalcookingschool.com/food-preparation/recipes/five-spice-powder/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Traditional Cooking School by GNOWFGLINS
Dish up the simple joy of healthy, down-home foods your family will LOVE… tonight.
Join 11,977 families served since 2010!
Join Now
About
About Wardee & TCS
Our Team
FAQs & Help
Contact
Recipes
Blog
Recipes
Archives
Podcast
AskWardee
Know Your Food with Wardee (retired)
Shop
Bible-Based Cooking Program
Print Textbooks
eBooks & eCourses
Recommended Tools & Supplies
More Books We Love
Complete Idiot’s Guide To Fermenting Foods
Errata
Login
type search keywords here...
You are here: Home » Food Preparation » Recipes » Spices & Mixes » Traditional Chinese Five Spice Powder
Want our grain milling series compiled into an eBook you can refer to offline? Click here to download the “Home Grain Milling 101” eBook for FREE!
Traditional Chinese Five Spice Powder
We only recommend products and services we wholeheartedly endorse. This post may contain special links through which we earn a small commission if you make a purchase (though your price is the same).
Jump to Recipe Print Recipe
A common ingredient in traditional Chinese and Vietnamese dishes, Chinese five spice powder combines five spices in an explosion of flavor that covers all five tastes — sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and umami. Use it in this probiotic apple chutney recipe or as a spice rub for your favorite roasted meat!
What spices are in Chinese five spice?
These are the spices you need, whether whole or ground. I recommend whole for the most potent and aromatic spice mix, but ground will work in a pinch.
You'll find common substitutions below, too.
From left to right: Szechuan peppercorns, star anise, a cinnamon stick, fennel seeds, and whole cloves._
Ingredients & Substitutions
Cassia cinnamon – Also known as Chinese cinnamon.
Clove – May use Mandarin orange peel instead.
Fennel seed – This is a very flavorful spice that tastes like licorice. Feel free to use ginger root instead for a well-rounded, albeit different flavor.
Star anise – Similar to fennel, this spice has a licorice-like, sweet yet peppery flavor. You may use anise seeds instead.
Szechuan (Sichuan) pepper – You may use plain black pepper instead, although it won't be the same. Szechuan pepper produces a tingly, numbing effect in the mouth when eaten, so it's hard to find a close substitute.
Instructions
1. Gather your spices.
2. Optional: Toast your whole spices in a dry skillet for a few minutes until fragrant. Be careful not to burn them! Once their aroma is released, remove it from heat and let cool completely.
3. Combine spices in a spice grinder, coffee grinder, or mortar and pestle. You can also use your Mockmill! (See instructions below.)
4. Grind until they are a fine powder.
5. Transfer to a small, air-tight container. If desired, use a fine-mesh strainer to filter out any larger particles.
6. Store your Chinese five-spice powder in a cool, dark location. Use up within a matter of months for the best flavor.
I do recommend whole spices, but if any of your spices are ground, go ahead with grinding the whole ones and simply mix in the ground spices after the fact.
Using Your Mockmill
You already know I love my Mockmill. It is the easiest, cleanest, and quietest grain mill I've ever used… and it can grind many spices, too!
To use your Mockmill to make Chinese five spice powder, first cut the cinnamon sticks into smaller pieces. Place a small bowl or jar underneath the chute to catch the spices. Turn your Mockmill on to its finest setting. Pour all of the spices into the hopper, and watch them come out of the chute… finely ground!
To clean your Mockmill after grinding those fragrant spices, simply mill some white rice. I show you how here.
The Mockmill is a wonderful way to grind spices because it offers more control of milling grade, continuous flow, and it's much easier to clean than your typical spice or coffee grinder!
For more information on the Mockmill, check out our Home Grain Milling 101 series. You can also visit this link for 5% off (no coupon code needed) your purchase of a Mockmill!
Recipes That Use Chinese Five Spice
Add to this apple chutney recipe.
Use as a spice rub for grilled meats.
Season roasted veggies.
Combine with olive oil and add to roasting nuts for the perfect kick of seasoning.
Enjoy in sourdough or soaked pumpkin bread.
Add to stir-fries.
Did you try this Chinese five spice powder recipe? If so, please give us a rating on the recipe card below. Then snap a photo and tag us on social media so we can see your Asian-inspired recipes!
0 from 0 votes
Print
Chinese Five Spice Powder
A common ingredient in traditional Chinese and Vietnamese dishes, Chinese five spice powder combines five spices in an explosion of flavor that covers all five tastes -- sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and umami. Makes about 1/4 cup.
Course Spice Mix 
Cuisine Chinese, Vietnamese 
Prep Time 5 minutes
Author Haniya Cherry
Ingredients
2 star anise or 1 teaspoon ground
1 teaspoon Szechuan peppercorn or 1 teaspoon ground
2 cinnamon sticks or 1 teaspoon ground
12 whole cloves or 1 teaspoon ground
1-1/2 teaspoon fennel seed or 1 teaspoon ground
Instructions
1. Gather your spices and combine them in a spice mill, coffee grinder, or mortar and pestle. You can also use your Mockmill! (See instructions below.)
2. Grind until they are a fine powder.
3. Transfer to a small, air-tight container. If desired, use a fine mesh strainer to filter out any larger particles.
4. Store in a cool, dark location. Use up within a matter of months for best flavor.
Recipe Notes
Feel free to increase or decrease the amounts of certain spices to get the taste that best suits your preference!
I do recommend whole spices, but if any of your spices are ground, go ahead with grinding the whole ones and simply mix in the ground ones after the fact.
To use your Mockmill to make Chinese five spice powder, first cut the cinnamon sticks into smaller pieces. Place a small bowl or jar underneath the chute to catch the spices. Turn your Mockmill on to its finest setting. Pour all of the spices into the hopper, and watch them come out of the chute... finely ground!
Looking for more spice blend recipes? Try these! __
2-Minute Easy Homemade Taco Seasoning Mix_
Homemade Za’atar Seasoning (Middle Eastern Spice Blend)_
Homemade Herb Seasoning Salt (Similar To Herbamare)_
Avoid Additives with 45 Homemade Dressings, Sauces, and Seasonings_
This post was originally published and written by Wardee Harmon in 2o10. It was updated and republished on 4/21/21._
just 15 minutes of hands-on time!
Download Free Recipe Now
Free No-Knead Einkorn Sourdough Bread Recipe
FREE
Is it really possible to "eat what you want to eat" like bread and butter, cinnamon rolls and cookies, meat and potatoes...
Bible-based cooking program..._
Click For More Info
yet it's GOOD for you?
We only recommend products and services we wholeheartedly endorse. This post may contain special links through which we earn a small commission if you make a purchase (though your price is the same).
Posted in: Food Preparation Recipes Spices & Mixes Spices & Mixes (Gluten Free)
About Haniya Cherry
Haniya is Wardee’s oldest daughter, a Traditional Cooking School child through and through! She enjoys reading history, science and adventure memoirs and long classic novels; adventuring outside; learning about the chemistry of food; and trying new recipes. Sourdough, kefir, ginger beer, and apple chutney are her favorite ferments! She and her husband have two little boys, both born at home.
Reader Interactions
Comments
April 18, 2007 at 9:56 pm
I am not suprised Wardee that you just went ahead and conquered this mystery like all the rest of them..Good for you! You are one awesome Lady and I am honored to call you friend..warm and gentle hugs from vermont
Mona, now you know how to do it, too! How do you like Five Spice Powder, BTW? What have you done with it? Here’s a {{Hug}} back to you!_
Reply
September 17, 2018 at 9:02 am
How long does this last?
Reply
September 17, 2018 at 9:30 am
Hi Beth, 
About 2 to 3 years if stored properly. Here’s an article with more details on herb storage: https://traditionalcookingschool.com/food-preparation/best-way-to-store-herbs-spices/
Danielle, TCS Customer Success Team
Reply
May 7, 2021 at 2:50 pm
Chinese Five Spice is my secret ingredient in the apple pies that I bake in the fall.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Hi and Welcome!
I’m Wardee Harmon and I help Christian moms who know they should cook healthy for their family but don’t know what to try or where to start… who don’t want to spend hours in the kitchen and want their food to still taste great… like I was. Click here for more…
Join the TCS Family...
Don't miss a thing... sign up for our newsletter!
Subscribe
You can unsubscribe any time, no hard feelings. :-)
You always have something inspiring. Thank you." —Renee C.
Recently on the Blog
Healthy Thanksgiving Recipes (5 Complete Allergy-Friendly Meal Plans!)
Fermentation Troubleshooting & FAQs (KYF172)
How To Make Sour Cream
How To Make Lacto-Fermented Radishes
How To Make Beet Kvass
Sourdough Tips, Troubleshooting & Frequently Asked Questions (KYF092, 167)
Cultured Cream Cheese (+5 flavor options!)
Lacto-Fermented Turnips & Beets
Paleo Double Chocolate Chip Cookies (Grain-Free, Dairy-Free, Nut-Free)
Cauliflower Pizza Crust Recipe (Grain-Free)
Recently Commented
Debbie on Southern Coconut Cream Pie
Katie on Red Meat Winter Stew
FZY on 7 Foods That Nourish Your Thyroid
Martha on How To Make Cranberry Juice At Home (only 4 ingredients!)
Toni on How to Make (and Use) an Herbal Decoction
Dawn on Gut-Healthy Cherry Lemon Water Kefir (refreshing natural soda!)
P-TAL on Benefits Of Copper Water (How To Make And Drink Copper Water Safely!)
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Before Footer
g-NOWF-glinz
are what we eat! _God’s Natural, Organic, Whole Foods, Grown Locally, In Season._
We love working with other Christian families who love good food and want to eat according to God’s design…
Not only because we believe it’s the healthiest way, but because we want to give Him glory for creating good food as the best medicine!
Learn more about GNOWFGLINS here…
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IOcH27DM1dI
Bible-Based Cooking Program
You can still “eat what you want to eat” like cinnamon rolls and cookies, bread and butter, and meat and potatoes… except it’s all healthy by God’s design!
Without spending hours in the kitchen or fearing the scale creeping up from all the good food!
Join 11,977 families served since 2010! Learn more here…
Copyright © 2021 Traditional Cooking School by GNOWFGLINS • About • Help • Privacy • Partners
Free No-Knead Einkorn Sourdough Bread Recipe
just 15 minutes of hands-on time!
Download Free Recipe
When you request this free offer, you'll be automatically added to our email newsletter. You can unsubscribe any time, no hard feelings. :-)_
FREE
