https://www.kuali.com/recipe/malaysian-favourite/laksa-johor-3/#cxrecs_s
Search
Get Kuali Newsletter
Log In
Register
Toggle navigation
Shop Recipes
Shop Recipes
Kuali Bakers 
Join Kuali Bakers
The Batter Place
Baker Stories
Start Up
Recipe Type
Stories 
Food Stories
Quizzes
Trusted Brand
Submit Recipe
Laksa Johor
Abirami Anne Durai
1. Homepage
2. Recipes
3. Malaysian Favourite
4. Laksa Johor
Prep Time __35 minutes
Cook Time __135 minutes
Serving For People
Difficulty Normal
Print
E-mail __Favorite
Thanks for being interested in Kuali's treasure trove of recipes!
Register and Login to Save your Recipes, Shop and more.
Login Register
Recipe Description
Johor royal family member shares her authentic laksa Johor. Born in Johor, Balkis and her family are members of the Johor royal family who moved to the Klang Valley in the 1970s. But their passion for heritage Johor food has never wavered, inspired at least in part by the indomitable Esah’s talent for cooking these meals.
While the noodles in laksa Johor were once made out of home-spun rice flour (laksa beras), in most modern incarnations, it is typically composed of spaghetti – reputedly a result of 19th century Johor ruler Sultan Abu Bakar’s predilection for the pasta – which gave way to this popular iteration of the dish.
The spaghetti is layered with a rich, thick gravy (kuah laksa) made up of fresh fish like ikan parang (wolf herring) dried shrimps, coconut milk and curry powder as well as aromatics like ginger, lemongrass, garlic and onions.
The meal is topped with a range of greens and garnishes in the ilk of cucumber, bean sprouts, mint leaves, Thai basil, sambal belacan and lime. Curiously, the laksa is meant to be eaten using only hands as implements.
This recipe first published in Food News under The Star.
Recipe Ingredient
1kg ikan parang (wolf herring)
4 red onions
10 cloves garlic
7.5cm galangal
7.5cm ginger
3 stalks lemongrass
5 tbsp cili boh (dried chilli paste)
150g dried shrimp, soaked
50g fish curry powder
500ml coconut milk
150g kerisik (toasted, pounded grated coconut)
4 to 5 pcs tamarind slices
sugar and salt to taste
500ml water
500g spaghetti
For the condiments
onions, peeled and finely sliced
cucumber, peeled, cut into rolls and finely sliced
Thai basil leaves, chopped
Vietnamese mint leaves, chopped
bean sprouts, blanched
sambal belacan, as required
Calamansi limes, halved
Instructions
1. Boil the fish until cooked. Debone the fish and blend till fine.
2. Blend the onions, garlic, galangal, ginger, lemongrass, dried chilli paste and dried shrimp.
3. In a pot, add some oil and sauté the blended paste and curry powder on low heat. Once fragrant, add in the blended fish and stir to combine.
4. Add in the coconut milk and kerisik and stir well. Add tamarind slices, sugar and salt to taste. Keep stirring and add water at this stage.
5. Let the mixture simmer on low heat for 1-2 hours until oil appears on the surface and colour is orangey-brown and the texture of the gravy is quite thick. Remove from heat.
6. In a pot, cook the spaghetti until al dente. Plunge into cold water. Take a handful of pasta strands, and make a knot.
7. Serve 1 to 2 knots of spaghetti on a plate along with the gravy. Place the condiments on top with a dash of sambal belacan and a squeeze of lime for an extra zesty taste.
Calories __Allergen __Share
Calories Facts
Coming Soon
Allergens
Coming Soon
User Type: anonymous web
Campaign ID: 2
Cxense type: free
Share this recipe
Laksa Johor
Recommended Posts
You may also like
Previous Recipe: One Pan Spaghetti – 3 Ways
Next Recipe: Opor Ayam
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Save my name and email in this browser for the next time I comment.
Rating 054321
Recommended Posts
Subscribe to our monthly newsletter
Sponsored Content
Sign in
Username
Password
Keep me logged in 
Don't have account ? Sign up here. 
Forgot your password? Reset it here.
Sign up
Agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
Already have account? Sign in here.
Forgot Password
Username or E-mail
Already have account ? Sign in here.
Recipe Types
Butter Recipes Cakes Milk Recipes Chicken Dishes Appetizers and Snacks Fish and Seafood Dishes cookwith AnchorDairy Poultry Dishes Whipping Cream Recipes Asian Desserts Cream Cheese Recipes Soups and Stews Cheese Recipes Fish Dishes Pork Dishes Cookies Breads Sauces and Condiments Rice Malaysian Favourite
Contact
Menara Star, 15 Jalan 16/11, Petaling Jaya 46350 Selangor
+603 79671388, (Fax) +603 7955 2458
kuali@thestar.com.my
K-Shop | About | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Statement
Copyright © 1995 - Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D) 
