https://www.jamieoliver.com/recipes/bread-recipes/basic-pizza/
Recipes
Discover
Family
Christmas
Together
Healthy recipes
Healthy soups
Healthy snacks
Healthy lunches
Quick & healthy
Healthy chicken recipes
Healthy fish recipes
Main Ingredient
Chicken
Pasta
Vegetables
Fish
Beef
Eggs
View more…
Special Diets
Vegan
Vegetarian ideas
Gluten-free
Dairy-free
Meals & Courses
Meals for one
Cheap & cheerful
Desserts
One-pan recipes
Quick fixes
Community Cooking
View more…
Baking recipes
Christmas baking recipes
Cookies
Afternoon tea treats
Breads & doughs
Cakes
View more…
Family recipes
Cooking with kids
School night suppers
Batch cooking
Quick & easy
Money saving recipes
View more…
Special occasions
Get-ahead Christmas recipes
Christmas recipes
Christmas cocktails and drinks
Sunday lunch
Drinks & cocktail recipes
View more…
Books & TV
Jamie Oliver: Together
Jamie’s Keep Cooking Family Favourites
7 ways
Veg
5 Ingredients – Quick & Easy Food
View more…
Nutrition
Healthy eating tips
Special diets guidance
All about sugar
Learn about portion size
What are starchy carbohydrates?
View more
Features
Christmas tips, tricks & recipes
Healthy meals
Baking inspiration
Family Cooking
Quick Fixes
View more
How to’s
How to get ahead for Christmas
How to make eggnog
How to make an espresso martini
How to cook the perfect steak
How to make meals veggie or vegan
View more
More Jamie Oliver
The Jamie Oliver Cookery School
Ministry of Food
Campaigns
Videos
Vegepedia
Community Cooking Recipes
Basic pizza
Simply delicious dough & topping
Vegetarianv
Basic pizza
Simply delicious dough & topping
Vegetarianv
Trust me, once you see how simple and tasty this pizza dough recipe is you won't want takeaways ” 
Serves 8 
Cooks In1 hour 20 minutes 
DifficultyNot too tricky 
BreadItalianMains
Nutrition per serving 
Calories 481 24% 
Fat 4.9g 7% 
Saturates 1.8g 9% 
Sugars 5.1g 6% 
Salt 1.5g 25% 
Protein 17.6g 35% 
Carbs 97.9g 38% 
Fibre 4.2g \- 
Of an adult's reference intake 
Please enable targetting cookies to show this banner
Tap For Method 
Ingredients
DOUGH (8 PIZZAS) 
800 g strong white bread flour 
200 g fine ground semolina flour or strong white bread flour 
1 level teaspoon fine sea salt 
2 x 7 g sachets of dried yeast 
1 tablespoon golden caster sugar 
TOMATO SAUCE (4 PIZZAS) 
1 clove of garlic 
1 bunch of fresh basil 
olive oil 
1 x 400 g tin of quality plum tomatoes 
TOPPING (4 PIZZAS) 
85 g mozzarella cheese 
Tap For Method
Share this Recipe
Please enable functionality cookies to use this feature
Tap For Ingredients 
Method
1. For the dough, pile the flours and 1 level teaspoon of sea salt onto a clean surface and make a well in the centre.
2. Add the yeast and sugar to 650ml lukewarm water, mix together and leave for a few minutes, then pour into the well.
3. Using a fork and a circular movement, slowly bring in the flour from the inner edge of the well and mix into the water. Continue to mix, bringing in all the flour – when the dough comes together and becomes too hard to mix with your fork, flour your hands and begin to pat it into a ball.
4. Knead the dough by rolling it backwards and forwards, using your hands to stretch, pull and push the dough. Keep kneading for 10 minutes, or until you have a smooth, springy, soft dough.
5. Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover with clingfilm and leave in a warm place to to prove for 45 minutes, or until doubled in size.
6. For the sauce, peel and finely slice the garlic, then pick the basil leaves and finely chop the stalks.
7. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a pan on a medium-low heat, add the garlic and basil stalks, then cook gently for a couple of minutes, or until the garlic is lightly golden, then add most of the basil leaves, the tomatoes, and a pinch of salt and pepper.
8. Leave the sauce to tick away for around 20 minutes, or until smooth, breaking up the tomatoes up with a wooden spoon. When the time’s up, taste, and season to perfection.
9. To assemble the pizzas, divide the dough in half. Wrap one half in clingfilm and freeze for another day. With the remaining half, divide the dough into 4 equal balls.
10. Flour each dough ball, then cover with clingfilm, and leave to rest for about 15 minutes – this will make them easier to roll it thinly.
11. Dust a clean surface and the dough with a little flour or semolina, and roll it out into a rough circle, about ½cm thick.
12. Tear off an appropriately sized piece of tin foil, rub it with olive oil, dust well with flour or semolina and place the pizza base on top. Continue doing the same with the remaining dough, dust with a little flour so you can pile them up. Cover with clingfilm and place in the fridge.
13. When you're ready to cook them, preheat the oven to 250°C/500°F/gas 9.
14. At this stage you can apply your topping: spread the tomato sauce over the base, spreading it out to the edges. Tear over the mozzarella and scatter with the remaining basil leaves. Drizzle with a tiny bit of olive oil and add a pinch of salt and pepper. 
15. If you can, cook the pizzas on a piece of granite in your conventional oven – if not, cook them one by one on pieces of tin foil directly on the bars of the oven shelf, towards the bottom of the oven (If you're going to cook your pizzas on the bars of the oven, make sure they're not too big – otherwise they'll be difficult to manoeuvre). Cook for 7 to 10 minutes, until the pizzas are golden and crispy.
16. Here are some of my favourite topping ideas: 
Mozzarella, anchovies, chilli, capers and parsley 
Smoked pancetta, mozzarella, fresh chilli and tomatoes 
Egg, prosciutto, artichokes, olives, mozzarella, tomato sauce and basil 
Green and red grapes, rosemary, pine nuts and ricotta 
Potatoes, mozzarella, rosemary, thyme and tomatoes 
Slow-roasted shredded pork with thyme, Taleggio and lemon-dressed rocket
Please enable targetting cookies to show this banner
Related features
7 sensational sandwich recipes
7 twists on avocado on toast
Bread baking for beginners
Related video
How to make perfect pizza: Gennaro Contaldo
2021 Jamie Oliver Enterprises Limited 
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Jamie Oliver Group
Contact
Sitemap
2021 Jamie Oliver Enterprises Limited 
