https://thehappylentils.com/en/vegan-patties-with-chickpea-flour/
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
The Happy Lentils
Happy vegetarian food
Home
Recipes
All recipes
Breakfast
Salad
Main dish
Side Dish
Sweets and Snacks
Soup
Pasta
Diet
Vegetarian – all recipes
Vegan
Gluten free
About
Contact
Vegan Patties with Chickpea Flour
Jump to Recipe
I’m a city mouse and a country mouse. Dreaming of a farm in the north and a shack by the sea but also on a penthouse in the city, need the quiet and drawn to the noise. I find inspiration from the people in the streets just as I find it from open and desolate views. I can not decide what I am more, I don’t even want to.
I want my children to grow up and also scared from it at the same time. I work hard to raise them to be strong and independent (or at least to teach them how to hang their own towels in the right place after bath …), but I’m also afraid of that day and of the sense of emptiness in me I know will follow. It’s not contradictory, it’s both, and that’s fine with me.
I love being outside, get to know streets and cities and countries I didn’t know before. I love to breathe and taste different places, but I also love being home, my house is my safest place and I always wait to return to it . It exists in me side by side, two parts of my character, which is one, and it works for me just fine.
We have everything in us, so many sides. There is no point in trying to define ourselves, deciding in advance what we like or dislike. Reality shows us differently all the time. Who said it’s impossible to be both?
Three different recipes for the most wonderful vegetable patties using chickpeas flour, which eliminates the need to use eggs, and still get delicious, light textured, and not at all crumbly patties. So why three recipes? Simply because they are so easy and fast to make so why not? They are also vegan, gluten free, you can either fry or bake them, you can eat them on a plate with some dip on the side or in a pita bread, and of course you can freeze them easily.
Print Recipe
Peas and Cauliflower Patties with Curry
Prep Time15 mins
Cook Time15 mins
Total Time30 mins
serves: 15 patties
Ingredients:
1 cup frozen peas
1/2 cauliflower head, grated coarsely or sliced to a similar size
1 medium onion, finely chopped
1/2 bunch coriander, chopped (about 1 cup)
1 garlic clove, crushed
1 teaspoon curry powder
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/2 teaspoon grounded coriander seeds
2 tablespoons olive oil
1½ cup chickpeas flour
1 cup water
Salt, pepper by taste (at least 1/2 teaspoon salt)
Oil for frying
Instructions:
In a large sauté pan heat olive oil. Add the chopped onion, chopped cauliflower, crushed garlic and spices – curry, turmeric, coriander powder, salt and pepper. Cook while stirring occasionally about 5-7 minutes until the cauliflower slightly softens.
At the same time, cook the peas: in a small pot, put the peas with boiling water to cover. Bring to a second boil and continue cooking for 5 more minutes. Drain.
In a large mixing bowl, place the chickpea flour and a glass of water, and whisk well until smooth. Add the cooked cauliflower and onions, cooked peas, chopped coriander, salt and pepper, and mix well. The mixture is a bit liquidish and that’s fine.
In a skillet, heat oil for frying, about ¼-inch/ half a cm high. with your clean hands, form a 2-inch patty and carefully place it in the skillet. Repeat with the rest of the mixture until the frying pan is full. The patties will puff up so make sure not to overcrowd the pan and leave some space between the patties. Fry for 3 minutes on one side, turn carefully and fry the other side for another 2 minutes Transfer to plate with absorbent paper.
Serve hot or cold, preferably with side dressing (try it with yogurt and mint)
Notes:
Oil for frying – you can use any oil according to your preference. I use canola oil. The patties are quite tolerant of the amount of oil, but I think it is best to make half-deep frying for optimal results. You can also reduce the amount of oil if you insist, but then make sure to use a good non-stick skillet.
I love eating those patties with a dip on the side, for example- yogurt and mint, tahini, tomato salsa, garlic dill, any kind of pesto and so on.
When baking the patties, I add grounded flax seeds, which help the patties to come out firmer from the oven. Flax seeds are neutral in flavor and super healthy. It is best to store flax seeds in the freezer
Print Recipe
Baked Broccoli and leek Patties
Prep Time15 mins
Cook Time20 mins
Total Time35 mins
serves: 15 patties
Ingredients:
1 head of broccoli, cut into florets
1 cup leek, well washed and coarsely chopped
1/2 bunch of parsley
1 tablespoon ground flax seeds
1 cup chickpeas flour
3/4 cup water
Salt, pepper by taste (at least 1/2 teaspoon salt)
Oil spray
Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C and prepare a baking pan lined with baking paper. Spray the baking paper with oil spray to prevent the patties from sticking. 
In a food processor, place the broccoli, leeks, parsley and ground flax seeds and pulse it into a crumbly mixture. 
In a large mixing bowl, put the chickpea flour and water and whisk well until smooth. Add the broccoli and leeks mixture, salt and pepper, and stir well. Form the patties, either using your wet and clean hands or any other preferred method, about 2-inch/ 5 cm diameter. Place the patties on the oiled baking paper and spray them with a little oil spray. 
Bake in the oven for 15-20 minutes. Cool. 
Print Recipe
Swiss Chard and Herbs Patties
Prep Time15 mins
Cook Time15 mins
Total Time30 mins
serves: 15 patties
Ingredients:
1 bunch of chard leaves, well washed and cut into thin strips
1 bunch parsley, chopped
1 bunch coriander, chopped
1/2 teaspoon cumin
1 cup chickpeas flour
1 cup water
Salt, pepper by taste (at least 1/2 teaspoon salt)
Oil for frying
Instructions:
Getting the swiss chard ready: Wash well the swiss chard and cut into thin strips. Then, place the chard in a pot and cover it with boiling water. Bring it to a second boil and continue cooking for about 5 minutes. Drain well and squeeze out excess liquids.
In a large mixing bowl, put chickpea flour and a glass of water, and whisk well until smooth. Add the rest of the ingredients- sautéed chard, chopped parsley, chopped coriander, cumin, salt and pepper, and stir well. 
In a skillet, heat oil for frying, about ¼-inch/ half a cm high, over medium heat. Carefully pour a tablespoon of patties’ mixture into the frying pan and gently flatten the patty using a spoon. Continue with the rest of the mixture till the pan is full. Fry the patties for 2 minutes on each side and transfer to a plate with absorbent paper. 
Notes:
Oil for frying – you can use any oil according to your preference. I use canola oil. The patties are quite tolerant of the amount of oil, but I think it is best to make half-deep frying for optimal results. You can also reduce the amount of oil if you insist, but then make sure to use a good non-stick skillet.
I love eating those patties with a dip on the side, for example- yogurt and mint, tahini, tomato salsa, garlic dill, any kind of pesto and so on.
Filed Under: All Recipes, Gluten free, main dish, Vegan, Vegetarian Leave a Comment
Previous Post: « Upside Down Orange Muffins with Semolina and Spelt Flour
Next Post: Lentils and Kale Stuffed Baked Sweet Potato »
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Search
Search
Email
Facebook
Instagram
good food connects people, and that good vegetarian food will save the world.
Previous Posts
Vegan Tahini Ice Cream- No churn
Vegan Cherry Crumb Bars
Wild Rice with Red Cabbage
Vegan Adzuki Bean Meatballs
Vegan Adzuki Bean, Kale and Sweet Potato Soup
Never miss a post! 
Subscribe here to our email list ♥
שפה/language
עברית
english
Copyright 2018 · The Happy Lentils 
