https://www.recipesfromitaly.com/leek-risotto-recipe/
Skip to content
Menu
Menu
Home
Traditional
Modern
Basic
Appetizer
Desserts
Fish and Seafood
Meat
Pasta
Lasagna
Gnocchi
Risotto
Polenta
Sauces and Dressings
Side Dish
Vegetarian
Party Food
Leek Risotto Recipe
August 21, 2021March 2, 2021
Leek Risotto is a very simple-to-make Italian recipe, light and nutritious. The leeks, browned in butter, are extremely fragrant and give the risotto a very delicate flavor. Leek Risotto is a dish of humble and poor origins. But nowadays people think of it as refined for its delicacy and lightness.
Leek Risotto is an ancient dish of the peasant Italian tradition. It has become a classic dish, especially of Piedmontese cuisine. In fact, Piedmont region produces the best Italian qualities of leek and rice. 
They often use leek in place of onion because it has a milder flavor and is more digestible than onion. You can even eat leek raw in _pinzimonio_ , or use it to enrich and flavor salads. You can use cooked leeks in many ways: braised or stewed as a side dish, _au gratin_ or also as a filling for savory pies. Leek goes very well with eggs, simply in omelette or _en cocotte._ But the queen of recipes with leeks is undoubtedly risotto!
The best risotto is traditionally made with Arborio or Carnaroli rice, two varieties that make the risotto creamier.
So now follow our step by step recipe for a creamy and fragrant Leek Risotto!
TRY ALSOPumpkin Risotto and Saffron Risotto recipe!
Leek Risotto Recipe
Prep Time: 15 Min
Cook Time: 20 Min
Yelds: 6
Ingredients
2 medium leeks
1.5 liters of vegetable stock
100 ml (3,5 oz) of dry white wine
450 g (1 lb) of Carnaroli or Arborio rice
80 g (3 oz) of unsalted butter
120 g (4,5 oz) grated Parmigiano cheese
3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil
a pinch of black pepper (optional)
a pinch of fine salt
How to Make Leek Risotto: Directions
Step 1) – First thing first make a vegetable stock: you’ll need it to cook risotto. You can make it the day before and keep it in the refrigerator. Reheat when necessary. Then clean the leeks. Remove the dark green part of the leek and the last part with the roots. Then remove even the hardest outer leaf, which you can add to the stock for more flavor.
Step 2) – Cut the leeks into rings and rinse them under fresh water to remove any earth residues.
Step 3) – In a large saucepan, pour 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and half a dose of butter. Turn on the heat and when the butter has melted, add the rings of leeks, a pinch of salt and a ladle of vegetable stock. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
Step 4) – Add the rice and mix well. Then add the white wine and let the it evaporate.
Step 5) – Finally add hot vegetable stock, very little at a time stirring constantly. Let it cook for about 15 minutes. At the end turn off the heat and add Parmigiano cheese and the remaining butter. Mix well for a creamy leek risotto. If you like, add some freshly ground black pepper. Serve leek risotto immediately hot with a little more grated Parmigiano cheese to taste.
Storage
Keep leek risotto in an airtight food container in the refrigerator, for 1-2 days maximum. Freezing is not recommended.
Leek Risotto Variations
There are several ingredients that go very well with leeks. Let’s see together what they are and what delicious recipes we can make with rice and leeks:
Leek Risotto with Gorgonzola Cheese
If you like strong flavors and love cheese, we recommend replacing the butter with 70 g (2.5 oz) of Gorgonzola cheese at the end of cooking. The strong and decisive flavor of Gongorzola goes very well with the sweet and delicate flavor of the leek.
Leek Risotto with Italian Sausage
If you have richer tastes, you can add a touch of flavor and color with a crumbled sausage. Add the sausage to the stewed leek, before adding the rice. Risotto with leeks and sausage is very popular in northern Italy.
Leek Risotto with Crispy Bacon
Finally, when risotto with leeks in ready, serve it in a plate but first sprinkle it with small crispy diced bacon, previously toasted in a very hot pan.
Curiosities
Leek is a popular vegetable in many countries and especially in France, Holland and Wales. In Italy leek grows mainly in the north and in particular in Piedmont region.
The most famous variety of leek in Italy is called _“lungo d’inverno”_ , also known as the _“gigante d’inverno”,_ characterized by very long stems (up to 80 cm/ about 30 inch), perfectly white, tender and tasty. Every year, at the beginning of November, the “Leek Fair” is in Cervere (Cuneo), visited by lovers of good Italian cuisine.
Another very good and well-known variety of Italian leeks is also produced in Piedmont in _Carmagnola_ in the province of Turin. The town of Carmagnola is also very famous for the production of fantastic bell peppers IGP (Protected Geographical Indication). A true Italian gastronomic excellence, with which to make a delicious Peperonata!
The leek called “ _Long Sweet Leek of Carmagnola”_ is characterized by a remarkable tenderness and a very sweet flavor and is also very digestible. 
For some years they have been organizing the Porro di Carmagnola market. This event is very important for this area both for economy and for gastronomic tourism. 
Categories Italian Recipes, Risotto Recipes, Traditional Italian Recipes, Vegetarian Recipes Tags Leek Recipes, vegetarian Recipes Post navigation
Torta Tenerina | Italian Chocolate Brownie Recipe
Fish Ragu Recipe
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
By using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website according to the guidelines set out in the Privacy Policy. | This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 
Δ
Search for:
Latest Recipes
Italian Christmas Cookies (Made with Pasta Frolla)
December 3, 2021December 4, 2021
Stuffed Cabbage Rolls
November 30, 2021December 1, 2021
Struffoli | Italian Honey Balls Recipe
November 22, 2021November 23, 2021
Pumpkin Bundt Cake with Amaretti Cookies and Chocolate Chips
October 29, 2021October 31, 2021
Strawberry Risotto Recipe
May 30, 2021November 14, 2021
Baked Monkfish with Lemon, Rosemary and Bread Crumbs
May 22, 2021December 1, 2021
Recipes from Italy - Web Stories
Vivino Disclosure
This Site, www.recipesfromitaly.com, is a participant in the Vivino Affiliate Program. This program is designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Vivino.com. For each qualifying purchase we earn a small fee.
Amazon Disclosure
This Site, www.recipesfromitaly.com, is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com/co.uk. As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases.
Legal Stuff
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Disclaimer
2021 Recipes from Italy
You need to accept this checkbox.
