https://www.baking-sense.com/2019/10/30/sourdough-pie-crust/?fbclid=IwAR2alvX72pttJi5QMGRDuZV1lOxF84ToiZ33k6EW00phDx1k7Qi5Sbr4qCM
Skip to Content
Search Magnifying Glass
Search for: Close Search × 
Home
Recipes
Breads
Sourdough Recipes
Cakes/Cupcakes Recipes
Fillings & Frostings
Pies & Tarts
Cookies & Bar Cookies
Muffins, Quick Breads & Donuts
Cobblers and Crisps
Ice Creams & Frozen Treats
Candies
Jams & Preserves
Pastries
Custards
Savory
Baker’s Resources
Baking Science: Ingredients
Baking Science: Cake Batter
Essential Baking Tools & Equipment
Baking Weights & Measures Conversion Chart
Baking Ingredient Substitutions
Baking Tips & Classic Techniques Explained
Baking How-Tos
How-To Videos
About Eileen/FAQ
Contact Me
Sourdough Pie Crust
By: Author Eileen Gray
Posted on Last updated: February 13, 2020
Jump to Recipe
Sourdough Pie Crust, where have you been all my life? This pie crust is tender, flaky and tastes amazing. This just might become your go-to pie crust recipe.
If you’re a sourdough-bread baker, you know how painful it is to throw away a whole cup of hard-earned yeasty goodness every time you need to replenish your starter.
This recipe is a great way to use that discard to make an incredible pie crust. Yes, it is convenient and satisfying to use the discard in this recipe rather than tossing it in the trash. But that’s not why you should make this recipe. 
Make this recipe because that little bit of sourdough discard does amazing things for the flavor and texture of a basic flaky pie dough.
If you don’t have one, you can learn How to Make a Sourdough Starter. Then I can show you how to Feed and Maintain Sourdough Starter or How to Keep a Small Sourdough Starter.
Why Sourdough Pie Crust is so good:
Each time you “feed” your sourdough starter you need to discard a portion of that starter. Obviously, this recipe is a great way to use sourdough discard. 
I based this recipe on my starter which is fed with equal _weights_ of starter, flour and water (that is 100% hydration). You may need to adjust the amount of starter in the recipe based on the moisture of your starter. 
Sourdough starter is acidic. Acidic ingredients tenderize gluten. Sourdough discard helps keep this pie crust tender. No one likes a tough pie crust.
As the crust bakes there is a tiny bit of lift from the natural yeast in the sourdough starter. I find that lift helps make the crust even flakier as the air pockets in the dough poof up a bit and separate the layers of dough.
Sourdough Pie Crust smells amazing as it’s baking in the oven. The yeasty, bready smell is totally tempting. 
Scroll through the step by step photos to see how to make Sourdough Pie Crust:
I used Sourdough Pie Crust to make a sensational Vanilla Pear Pie and the best Chicken Pot Pie ever.
Since you’ve got your starter fed, peruse the entire list of My Best Sourdough Recipes. Have fun!
I know you hate to throw away that sourdough discard. Check out these recipes that use sourdough discard. 
If you love this recipe as much as I do, I’d really appreciate a 5-star review.
Continue to Content
Sourdough Pie Crust 
Yield:_ 2 crust pie
Prep Time:_ 10 minutes
Chilling Time:_ 2 hours
Total Time:_ 2 hours 10 minutes
A Perfect Pie Crust is a thing of beauty. The addition of a little sourdough discard adds an intriguing depth of flavor to a basic pie dough.
Print 
Ingredients
1 1/2 cups (7.5 oz, 210g) all purpose flour (see note) 
2/3 cup (3.5 oz, 100g) cake flour 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon granulated sugar 
1/2 cup (4 oz, 115g) vegetable shortening, cold 
1/2 cup (4 oz, 115g) butter, very cold and sliced into 1/4" thin slices 
1 cup (8 oz, 224g) sourdough discard, see note (100% hydration) 
Instructions
1. Combine the all purpose and cake flour with the salt and sugar. Whisk together to mix the ingredients evenly.
2. Using your fingers, cut the shortening into the flo7aur mixture until it resembles coarse corn meal. Using your fingers, toss the butter into the flour mixture. Allow the slices of butter to break up into slightly smaller pieces into the flour. Work quickly so the butter doesn't get warm. Don't break the butter down completely. There should be some large flakes remaining.
3. Pour the sourdough discard onto the flour all at once and toss to combine. Gently press the dough just until it comes together. It will look a little dry in spots. The moisture will redistribute in the dough as it rests.
4. Wrap the dough and refrigerate for at least 2-3 hours before using.
Notes
I based this recipe on my starter which is fed with equal _weights_ of starter, flour and water. You may need to adjust the amount of starter in the recipe based on the moisture level of your starter. 
Recommended Products
As an Amazon Associate and member of other affiliate programs, I earn from qualifying purchases.
OXO Good Grips Stainless Steel Food Scale 
Pyrex Glass Pie Plate 
Mrs. Anderson's Ceramic Pie Crust Weights 
Breadtopia Sourdough Starter (Live) 
Muso Wood Wooden French Rolling Pin 
Did you make this recipe?
Please leave a comment on the blog or share a photo on Instagram
Eileen Gray
Cuisine: baked goods / Category: Pies & Tarts
Post navigation
Apple Filled Donuts
Vanilla Pear Pie
Click here to cancel reply.
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Δ
Donna Reardon
Wednesday 24th of November 2021
Hi, I'm making this for my pumpkin pie. Do I need to prebake the pie crust?
Eileen Gray
Thursday 25th of November 2021
For pumpkin pie I would blind bake the crust so it doesn't end up soggy.
Kim
Monday 22nd of November 2021
Any suggestions for doing this with a wheat-free discard? My daughter loves pies and I’ve made her a wheat-free starter but it’s a lot thicker than the normal one even though I do the same ratio of ingredients. I made this recipe over the summer with the regular discard and it was so good, I wanted to use it for pumpkin pie this week, but I feel bad not letting her eat the crust (it’s my favorite part!) Thanks!
Kim
Thursday 25th of November 2021
It was extra crumbly so I added more water (not sure how much, a few splashes until it seemed good). I did have to mix it more though because I didn’t realize how crumbly until after I took it out of the fridge. And I had run out of shortening which is hard to get here (in the UK) so used more butter. Daughter had a taste as I was transferring her mini pies to another container and she said it was good, so it probably turned out fine. In future, I will just add some more water at the start. Thanks again!
Kim
Wednesday 24th of November 2021
Eileen Gray, yeah, it does. It’s not gluten that’s the problem (common mix-up, you can actually have one without the other!)
About to give it a try! We’ll see how it goes. She usually eats most things without complaining, so that’s good.
Eileen Gray
Monday 22nd of November 2021
Hi Kim, sorry I don't have experience with wheat free recipes. Maybe someone else can make a suggestion? Would the entire recipe have to be wheat free?
Ryan
Wednesday 13th of January 2021
Hello! I'm a huge sourdough starter fan and am so happy I found your website! One of my cookbooks is a book all about bacon and one of the recipes in the cookbook calls to use clarified bacon fat to make a pie crust. I'd love to make a pie crust using both sourdough starter and bacon grease! In your opinion, do you believe replacing the vegetable shortening for clarified bacon fat (cold) could work?
Eileen Gray
Wednesday 13th of January 2021
Yes. I almost always use leaf lard instead of vegetable shortening when I make pie dough.
Jenn
Saturday 28th of November 2020
I'm 'babysitting' the sourdough starter from work and need some discard recipes to try. This looks simple and delicious. Is it possible to make without the shortening, just substitute more butter? Thanks!
Eileen Gray
Saturday 28th of November 2020
Yes!
Alexandra Moellmann
Tuesday 6th of October 2020
Looks good and I'm about to try your recipe. But why perpetuate the myth that you need to discard starter? Sure there's a period in the beginning when it makes sense not to feed the whole developing starter, but after that, there's no reason to throw any starter away. Just keep the amounts small and then there's no waste. Make more if you want unfed starter.
Eileen Gray
Tuesday 6th of October 2020
There are a million ways to make and keep starter. For those who prefer not have less discard I recommend keeping a small starter.
Follow me
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
My new book is now available at Amazon! As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Home
Contact Me
Recipes
Baker’s Resources
Baking School
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2021 Baking Sense® | Trellis Framework by Mediavine
Skip to Recipe
2148
