https://www.mydarlingvegan.com/vegan-banh-mi-pizza/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
About
Contact
Work With Us
Shop
Subscribe
Recipes
Vegan Resources
eBooks
Vegan Starter Guide
Search
Home » Recipes » Vegan Dinner Recipes » Vegan Banh mi Pizza
Vegan Banh mi Pizza
by Sarah McMinn / Posted: April 29, 2019 / Updated: August 1, 2020 / Disclosure: This post may contain affiliate links. Jump to Recipe Print Recipe Total Time: 1 hr 35 mins 
841 shares
157
684
A culinary fusion of Italian and Vietnamese classics, this vegan Banh Mi Pizza is made with quick pickled cucumbers and carrots, seasoned tofu, and creamy Banh mi sauce._
It's time for some pizza, friends!
And not just any pizza. I've got one of my favorite pizza recipes today. It's vegan Banh mi pizza! A sweet and savory pizza made with marinated and sautéed tofu, quick pickled vegetables, and creamy Banh mi sauce all over an artisan pizza crust.
I think you're going to love this recipe!
Disclosure:This post may contain affiliate links._
Table of Contents show
What is Banh mi?
Recommended Ingredients & Equipment
How to Make Vegan Banh mi Pizza
Serving And Storing
More Vegan Pizza Recipes
Vegan Banh Mi Pizza
1 Pizza Crust (homemade or store bought)
Creamy Banh Mi Sauce
Pickled Vegetables
Marinated Tofu
Toppings
What is Banh mi?
Classicly Banh mi is made in the form of a sandwich. It is popular street food in Vietnam and one of the best fusion cuisines I know. A blend of Vietnamese and French foods, a Banh mi sandwich combines Vietnamese meats and vegetables with the French baguette and wonderful creamy condiments for a sandwich that will amaze you.
For our Banh mi pizza, all we need to do is swap out our French baguette for an artisan pizza crust and we have a Vietnamese/Italian/French fusion meal that is so so good!
Recommended Ingredients & Equipment
A blend of Vietnamese and French foods, this pizza combines Vietnamese meats and vegetables with the artisan pizza crust and its wonderful creamy condiments for a meal that will amaze you.
Here is everything you'll need.
Ingredients & Substitutions
Extra Firm Tofu – Look for _extra-firm_ tofu that is not water-packed, such as Trader Joe’s High-Protein Tofu or Super Firm Sprouted Tofu. These types of tofu do not have excess water and do not need to be pressed. If you have to use water-packed tofu make sure to press as much water as you can out of it first by using a tofu pressor a weighted, towel-lined cutting board.
Marinade – This is a combination of soy sauce, rice vinegar, maple syrup, sesame oil, and fresh ginger.
Oil – Any high-heat oil will do like coconut or avocado.
Vegan Mayonnaise – My favorite brand is Just Mayo. It is shelf-stable and has a similar price point to non-vegan mayonnaise. However, any vegan mayo will do.
Hoisin Sauce
Sriracha
Agave Nectar
Quick Pickled Veggies – A combination of carrots, cucumbers, jalapeños, granulated sugar, rice vinegar, and salt.
Pizza Dough \- I typically buy pre-made pizza dough which can be found in the refrigerated section of most well-stocked grocery stores. When baked, it tastes as fresh as if made in your kitchen while eliminating a time-consuming step in homemade pizza. However, feel free to make pizza dough from scratch or buy par-baked pizza dough.
Cilantro
Jalapeño
Recommended Equipment
For this recipe you will need a large, shallow dish for marinating the tofu, a large skillet, a chef’s knife, cutting board, a pizza stone and pizza cutter and basic kitchen utensils. _( <<affiliate links)_
Check out the full list of my recommended_ _kitchen tools and gadgets_ _._
How to Make Vegan Banh mi Pizza
Step One – Prepare the Tofu
The first step is swapping out the Vietnamese meat for marinated tofu.
I used extra firm tofu that is pressed and marinated in a mixture of soy sauce, sesame oil, hoisin sauce, and rice vinegar for a classic Vietnamese taste. Let the flavors soak into the tofu for at least an hour.
Cut tofu into ¼″ slices and pan-fried it in hot oil for that chewy, crispy texture.
Step Two – Quick Pickled Vegetables
Thinly slice the carrots, cucumbers, and jalapeños. Whisk them together with the rice vinegar, sugar, and salt. Cover and refrigerate until ready to use.
For this recipe, I omitted the daikon because they can be difficult to find and I like to keep my recipes as simple as possible. However, if you can find daikon at your local grocery store, feel free to add that in with the carrots and the cucumber for a more authentic vegetable mix.
Step Three – Creamy Banh Mi Sauce
Lastly, make the creamy Banh mi sauce.
The Bahn mi fusion brings together Vietnamese flavors with French condiments. A combination of vegan mayonnaise, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, and Sriracha (or jalapeños) are whipped up into a spicy, tangy, creamy, and oh-so-delicious sauce that will have you licking your fingers for more.
Step Four - Assemble the Pizza
For the recipe, the crust gets baked separately. Stretch out the crust and bake it in a hot oven for about 15 minutes, until the edges are lightly brown. Once the crust is out of the oven, slather it in Banh mi sauce and top it with quick-pickled vegetables, sautéed tofu, jalapeños, and cilantro.
Serve immediately.
Serving And Storing
Serve pizza fresh out of the oven.
Store leftover pizza in an airtight container in the refrigerator 1-2 days. Gently reheat the pizza in the oven or on the stovetop before eating.
More Vegan Pizza Recipes
Roasted Beet and Cashew Cheese Pizza_
Grilled Pizza Margherita_
Eggplant and Caramelized Onion Pizza_
Palak Paneer Pita Pizza_
Vegan Banh Mi Pizza
A culinary fusion of Italian and Vietnamese classics, this vegan Banh Mi Pizza is made with quick pickled cucumbers and carrots and seasoned tofu.
5 from 4 votes
Print Pin Rate
Prep Time: 20 minutes
Cook Time: 15 minutes
Marinating time: 1 hour
Total Time: 1 hour 35 minutes
Servings: 4 people
Calories: 189kcal
Author: Sarah McMinn
Ingredients
1 Pizza Crust (homemade or store bought)
Creamy Banh Mi Sauce
¼ cup veganaise
2 teaspoon hoisin sauce
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon agave nectar
Pickled Vegetables
1 large carrot, cut into matchsticks
1 small cucumber, thinly sliced
½ cup rice vinegar
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
½ teaspoon salt
Marinated Tofu
8 ounces extra firm tofu, thinly sliced
2 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoon rice vinegar
2 tablespoon maple syrup
pinch of salt
1-2 teaspoon fresh grated ginger
Toppings
Fresh cilantro
Sriracha
Jalapeño peppers, diced
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Prepare the tofu marinade in a large, shallow dish. Slice the tofu into ¼" slices and place it in the marinade so that it is completely submerged. Marinate the tofu for at least 1 hour.
Combine the ingredients for the pickled vegetables, submerging the carrots and cucumbers completely. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 425F. Lightly brush the pizza dough with olive oil and bake on pizza stone for 12-15 minutes until lightly golden.
While the pizza crust is baking, heat the oil in a skillet and panfry the marinated tofu until darkened and crispy, about 5 minutes per side.
Whisk together the ingredients for the Creamy Banh Mi Sauce. Set aside. 
Remove the crust from the oven. Cover in an even layer of sauce. Add pickled vegetables, pan-fried tofu, and remaining toppings.
Notes
Serving and Storing - Serve pizza fresh out of the oven. Store leftover pizza in an airtight container in the refrigerator 1-2 days. Gently reheat the pizza in the oven or on the stovetop before eating.
Nutrition
Calories: 189kcal | Carbohydrates: 15g | Protein: 1g | Fat: 12g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 1001mg | Potassium: 90mg | Sugar: 11g | Vitamin A: 2550IU | Vitamin C: 0.9mg | Calcium: 16mg | Iron: 0.3mg
mydarlingvegan on Instagram
If you give this recipe recipe a try, snap a photo and share it on Instagram. Make sure to tag @mydarlingvegan so I can see your creations!
Vegan Chocolate Banana Cream Pie
Gluten Free Buffalo Cauliflower Wraps »
Follow me on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest and read more about me here.
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. S says
January 16, 2021 at 9:35 pm
I LOVE this pizza
Reply
2. Ashley says
September 05, 2020 at 5:21 pm
What an amazing blend of flavors! Perfect for our "specialty pizza Saturdays". I made sure to cut my tofu extra-thin and it crisped up so well in the pan. It was a delicious contrast to the cool pickled veggies. I threw some radishes in the mix too. Thank you !
Reply
3. Seclusive Nature says
June 17, 2017 at 2:45 pm
We've made this twice now and could easily have it every week. Definitely one of our favorite meals!
Reply
Sarah says
June 18, 2017 at 6:53 am
That's great to hear! Thanks for letting me know.
Reply
4. ANGELA COOPER says
April 23, 2017 at 8:43 pm
I've made this several times now on Whole Wheat Nash bread and it's so fresh and delicious! It's positively addicting! Thank you so much!!
Reply
5. ANGELA says
March 22, 2017 at 9:35 am
Made this a couple of weeks ago! Yummy! Dreaming about it since! Thank you so much for this awesome recipe!
Reply
6. Lesley says
March 17, 2017 at 9:49 am
This pizza is DELICIOUS. I've been making vegan pizzas every friday night for about 6 months now, and this is my family's favorite.
Reply
Sarah says
March 17, 2017 at 12:23 pm
Thanks! So glad it's a hit. I love pizza night!
Reply
7. Heather says
March 29, 2014 at 5:25 pm
You have been rock in' out so many amazing recipes lately; do you need a live in nanny? I would totally work for your food;)
Reply
Sarah says
March 30, 2014 at 9:13 am
Um...yes please!!!! 😉
Reply
8. Carolyn says
March 20, 2014 at 5:39 am
Wow this looks amazing - I love banh mi and am so happy you've created a vegan version...and a pizza one at that!! I'll definitely be trying this. Your photos are gorgeous by the way.
Reply
9. Linda says
March 19, 2014 at 9:49 am
I love pizza, but maybe not quite as much as my hubby who would marry pizza if he could. This combo of flavors sure sounds delicious and I know it would be a big hit in our household. Yay for finding awesome new recipes to try!
Reply
10. Ana says
March 17, 2014 at 9:49 pm
Those brown pieces like bacon is the tofu? What's 
agave and sriracha? Do we have it here in Japan?
Reply
Sarah says
March 18, 2014 at 12:55 pm
Yes, that's tofu. I'm not sure if you have agave or sriracha in Japan. Agave is a sweetener. You could sub maple syrup and Sriracha is a hot sauce.
Reply
11. Elyse @myveganp says
March 17, 2014 at 10:16 am
I LOVE banh mi. In pizza form?! Omgosh! I can't wait to try this!
Reply
12. Drew says
March 17, 2014 at 8:12 am
WOW just what I was looking for. Came here by searching for mickey mouse waffle iron ebay
Reply
Sarah says
March 17, 2014 at 8:41 am
That's hilarious. It's amazing where the internet will take us. I'm glad you found me.
Reply
13. Jon says
March 13, 2014 at 4:19 am
Sarah, I am all about this pizza!! I want it soon, it looks and sounds so awesome. Next time we make pizza, we will make this (however, we have been enjoying nice meals made for us for the last week since William was born so we're having a nice holiday from cooking). 
Thank you 🙂 
Jon
Reply
Sarah says
March 13, 2014 at 7:14 am
I saw that on Facebook. Many congrats! Im glad your family is enjoying the time together and the free meals! Tell A many congrats too!
Reply
14. Emily says
March 12, 2014 at 2:41 pm
I just made this! It is incredible!!! Thank you so much 🙂
Reply
Sarah says
March 12, 2014 at 3:03 pm
Thanks Emily! I'm glad you tried it and liked it!
Reply
15. Emma says
March 10, 2014 at 3:10 pm
So pleased you've got your cooking mojo back! There's nothing like a new cookbook to get you excited to be in the kitchen. 
This pizza looks insane! Yum yum.
Reply
Sarah says
March 10, 2014 at 3:20 pm
Thanks and thanks, Emma!
Reply
16. Caitlin says
March 10, 2014 at 9:20 am
hooray for cooking more! i have been feeling a lot better about cooking more and, more specifically, trying new/different recipes. i'm glad we're both getting our shit together!
Reply
Sarah says
March 10, 2014 at 9:34 am
It's about time, right? Certainly helps with new cookbook inspiration.
Reply
17. Ceara @ Ceara's Kitchen says
March 10, 2014 at 8:38 am
I'm happy you restocked your pantry and are in the process of making an awesome meal plan! I know how easy it is to succumb to cereal dinners - I sometimes feel like I could eat oatmeal for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and be quite content 😀 
I might add, this pizza looks like summer! It is gorgeous!!! Pinned!
Reply
18. Harriet Congdon says
March 10, 2014 at 8:30 am
Ooh, that does look good! I'll have to try this (minus some of the hot stuff :).
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
I have read and accepted the Privacy Policy 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Hi! I’m Sarah McMinn , author and recipe developer here at My Darling Vegan. I am a classically trained chef and professional photographer. With 14 years of vegan experience, my goal is to make vegan eating easy, fun, and accessible for all.
More about me →
As Featured In...
Most Popular
The BEST Vegan Blueberry Muffins
Vegan Chocolate Torte with Hazelnut Crust
Vegan Chocolate Peppermint Crinkle Cookies
Raw Carrot Cake Bites
Best-Ever Vegan Vanilla Cupcakes
Best-Ever Vegan Zucchini Bread
See more recipes →
Vegan Thanksgiving Recipes
Triple Chocolate Beet Cake
Vegan Gingerbread Cake
3-Ingredient Vegan Pecan Pie
Classic Vegan Sweet Potato Casserole
Classic Vegan Pumpkin Pie Recipe
Easy Vegan Pumpkin Cheesecake
See more vegan Thankgiving recipes →
Vegan Recipe Roundups
31 Vegan Easter Recipes
12 Vegan Asparagus Recipes
9 Amazing Vegan Taco Recipes
9 Vegan Fish Replacements
View more recipe roundups →
Footer
back to top
Recipes
Shop
Work With Us
Contact
Privacy
Press
Accessibility Statement
THIS SITE CONTAINS AFFILIATE LINKS © 2021 My Darling Vegan — All Rights Reserved
Need help with dinner?_ Check out Easy Weeknight Dinners for easy and wholesome recipes the whole family will love! 
