http://www.happystove.com/recipe/68/Panada+%28Bread+Soup%29/
HappyStove- Recipes with gusto
BROWSE RECIPES BY:
TAG
PICTURE
INGREDIENT
SEARCH 
by ingredient
If you like this recipe come back on www.happystove.com and rate it!
Panada (Bread Soup) - Recipe
This soup is a very tasty and easy to prepare light meal. Panada soup is typical of the Northeastern part of Italy. This soup has its origin as an inexpensive meal in the poor areas of the countryside. Because of its nutritional properties and its easiness of administration was frequently prepared as a meal for elders and debilitated people.
Tweet
Stats:
Level: Easy
Preparation time: 40 minutes
Total time: 60 minutes
Yield: 4 servings
Ingredients:
Sourdough Bread (dried)
24 Onions
1 Egg Yolks
3 Beef Bouillon
1 Extra Virgin Olive Oil
4 tbsps
Parmigiano Cheese (grated), to taste
Black Pepper, to taste
Salt
Cooking Directions:
Cut 3/4 of the bread in small pieces. Put in the oven the remaining bread to toast. When toasted put them in a food processor and chop it in small crumbs. Put in a pan a tablespoon of olive oil and saute the bread crumbs until ready.
In a large pot saute the finely chopped onion in 1 tablespoon of olive oil.
When the onion is slightly brown add few tablespoon of water and to follow the bread in pieces. Stir well trying to avoid the bread to stick on the bottom of the pot. Promptly add 1/2 gallon of water and the beef bouillon cube.
Adjust of salt and pepper. Cover and cook throughly for 40 minutes stirring frequently.
Remove from the heat and add the egg yolks and a table spoon of extra virgin olive oil.
Serve hot in bowl and top with bread crumbs and grated parmigiano.
Tips:
To turn it in a vegetarian dish substitute the beef bouillon with vegetable broth.
Instead the bread crumbs and the parmigiano top. Try to your favorite vegetables or other cheese to create your own dish.
Panada (Bread Soup) is tagged as:
Cheese
Dairy
Easy
Eggs
Healthy
Main Dishes
Soups
Vegetables
Wallet Friendly 
Other Soups ideas:
Leek Soup
Healthy, easy and tasteful, this Leek Soup is a great recipe with a delicate flavor. Enjoy this vegetarian meal with toasted bread, crackers or croutons. 
Orzo and Beef Broth Soup
Orzo and Beef Broth Soup is a quick and very tasty recipe. It is perfect as starter or as a light dinner.
Ginger, Turmeric and Cumin Soup
Ginger, Turmeric and Cumin Soup is a tasty and healthy recipe, ideal for a cold winter dinner. The unique and tangy hints of the spices are creating a perfect blend of flavors and colors. Light and easy!
see all Soups
More Recipes using Onions:
Vegetarian Carbonara Pasta
Vegetarian Carbonara Pasta is a great and healthy variation for the traditional Italian pasta alla carbonara. The mix of herbs perfectly match the smoothness of the egg yolks in a delicious result.
Pasta alla Carbonara (Eggs and Bacon Pasta)
From a classic of the Italian cuisine, eggs and your favorite choice of bacon in this delicious pasta recipe. Pasta alla Carbonara will become one of your favorite main courses.
Hot Red Meatballs
Looking for something spicy and yummy? These tomato sauce with black beans and meatballs is what will satisfy your taste buds. An easy, spicy recipe that may become one of your favorite meals!
see all Recipes using Onions
Search by Ingredient:
Last recipes:
Italian Traditional Pasta Pie - Pasta Pasticciata
Rich and mouthwatering this Pasta Pasticciata recipe is a Traditional Italian Pasta Pie typically prepared in Southern Italy...
read recipe
Gazpacho - version II
Enjoy this delicious gazpacho soup made from scratch with raw vegetables. Light and diet friendly, this recipe is perfect...
read recipe
Stir Fried Kale with Cubed Ham
Easy and quick, this recipe for stir fried kale with cubed ham brings on your table the healthy benefits of kale and the...
read recipe
Octopus Salad
Octopus Salad is a delectable recipe for a healthy and low calories meal. This simple and...
READ MORE
Herbs, Pine Nuts and Ricotta Cheese Penne
Herbs, Pine Nuts and Ricotta Cheese Penne is a quick and easy pasta recipe that will surprise...
READ MORE
Panna Cotta
Panna Cotta is a well known traditional Italian recipe. Surprisingly easy to prepare, this...
READ MORE
Sections 
Articles 
Appetizers 
Main Dishes 
Side Dishes 
Desserts 
Basics 
Browse 
By Picture 
By Ingredient 
By Tag 
Collections 
Halloween 
Holidays 
Independence 
Sayings 
Thanksgiving 
Valentine 
Follow Us 
Twitter 
Facebook 
Google Plus 
Android Apps 
StumbleUpon 
Pinterest 
