https://www.simplyrecipes.com/recipes/bread_soup_panade_with_onions_chard_and_mushrooms/
Search Search Close search 
button button SimplyRecipes.com
saved recipes 
Recipes
Most Recent
Breakfast
Lunch
Dinner
Dessert
Drinks
Snacks & Appetizers
Holidays & Seasonal Recipes
Recipes by Diet
Recipes by Method
Recipes by Ingredients
Recipes by Time & Ease
Recipes by Cuisine
View all 
Quick & Easy
Quick Dinners
Easy & Healthy
Quick Vegetarian
Easy Pastas
Easy Chicken
View all 
In the Kitchen
The Simply Recipes A-Z Guide to Cooking Terms and Definitions
Meal Plans
Recipe Collections
Tips & Techniques
Ingredient Guides
Cuisine Guides
View all 
Buying Guides
Equipment Guides
Best Kitchen Items
Best Ingredients
View all 
Holidays & Seasons
Simply Fabulous Thanksgiving!
Fall Favorites
Hanukkah Recipes
Christmas Recipes
Game Day Snacks
View all 
About us
saved recipes 
Vegetarian Soups
Swiss Chard
Bread Soup (Panade) with Onions, Chard, and Mushrooms
Rustic, hearty, thick bread soup with onions, chard, mushrooms, thick Italian or French loaf bread, and Parmesan.
By
Elise Bauer
Elise Bauer
Instagram
Elise founded Simply Recipes in 2003 and led the site until 2019. She has an MA in Food Research from Stanford University.
Learn about Simply Recipes' Editorial Process
Published January 12, 2012
4 ratings
Add a Comment
Pin 
Share 
Email 
Elise Bauer
JUMP TO RECIPE 
34 Recipes that Celebrate Fall Vegetables
FEATURED IN:
What Is a Panade? 
Have you ever encountered a panade (pronounced "pah NAHD")? It's basically a casserole of sorts, a baked layered dish with bread the key ingredient. Panade comes from the Latin base "pan" for bread. 
But instead of egg as a binder, like you might find in a breakfast casserole, there are no eggs in a panade. Instead, the layers of bread, cheese, and other ingredients are cooked in stock. Because of the addition of stock, this dish is also called bread soup. 
In fact, thick and filling, it's really more of a stew than a soup. The bread absorbs much of the liquid. 
How to Make Panade 
Although it looks a bit involved, this bread soup is fairly easy to make. Much of the prep can be done while you are toasting the bread cubes. You brown onions and mushrooms, and layer them a couple of times in a Dutch oven with chopped fresh chard and toasted bread croutons. 
Add plenty of stock, and some honey-sweetened wine. Top everything with grated Parmesan and into the oven it goes. An hour and a half later, a rich, thick beautiful stew. Enjoy! 
Featured Video
Save It Print 
Bread Soup (Panade) with Onions, Chard, and Mushrooms 
Prep Time 15 mins
Cook Time 90 mins
Total Time 105 mins
Servings 6 servings
This soup really shines with homemade stock, especially homemade vegetable stock. I do not recommend using boxed or canned veggie stock for this recipe.
Ingredients
12-14 ounces day-old rustic bread, cut into 1-inch cubes 
3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
Salt 
1 tablespoon butter 
2 cups thinly sliced onions (sliced vertically, from tip to root) 
1 tablespoon minced garlic 
6 to 8 ounces cremini or button mushrooms, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
10 to 12 ounces fresh chard, rinsed 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh thyme (or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme) 
1/2 cup hearty red wine 
1 tablespoon honey 
2 quarts stock (chicken, beef, or vegetable, use vegetable stock for vegetarian option) 
1 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
Method
1. Brown the cubed bread in the oven: 
Pre-heat oven to 350°F. Toss the cubed bread with a tablespoon of olive oil, sprinkle with a little salt. Arrange bread on a baking sheet and toast for 20-30 minutes (check timing!) or until nicely browned. 
Elise Bauer
Elise Bauer
2. Gently cook the sliced onions, add the garlic: 
While the cubed bread is in the oven, prepare the onions. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil and the butter on medium heat in a 5- to 7-quart Dutch oven. Add the onions and stir to coat with the butter and oil. Cook gently, stirring occasionally for 10 to 15 minutes. 
If the onions begin to dry out at all, lower the heat. They should begin to caramelize and lightly brown. 
Add the garlic, cook for a minute more, remove from heat. 
Elise Bauer
Elise Bauer
3. Dry sauté the mushrooms: 
While the onions are browning, heat a large sauté pan on medium-high heat. Add the sliced mushrooms. "Dry" sauté them (sauté without any added fat) until they release their moisture and are lightly browned. 
Elise Bauer
4. Prep the chard: 
Cut away the tough central stems of the chard leaves. Cut across the leaves into 1-inch wide strips. 
Elise Bauer
Elise Bauer
5. Layer Dutch oven with onions, chard, mushrooms, bread, spices: 
Remove half of the browned onions from the Dutch oven and set aside. Spread the remaining onions evenly over the bottom of the pot. 
Layer over with half of the chard and half of the browned mushrooms. Sprinkle with pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, and thyme. 
Elise Bauer
Put down a layer of toasted bread cubes. Add the remaining onions, chard, and mushrooms. Layer on top the remaining bread cubes. 
6. Add honey wine mixture and stock: 
Mix together the honey and wine, until the honey is dissolved. Pour over the bread mixture. Pour the broth over everything. 
7. Scatter the top evenly with the grated cheese 
Elise Bauer
Elise Bauer
8. Bake in oven: 
Cover the pot with foil (not the lid) and seal it around the edges. Cut 4 or 5 vent holes in the top. Put it in a 350°F (175°C) oven. Bake for 1 hour 15 minutes. Serve immediately, digging into the layers to get a bit of everything for each portion, or let cool and refrigerate, covered. 
To reheat, gently simmer a portion until hot. Plate and garnish with additional cheese and thyme. 
Links:
Chard, Onion, and Gruyère Panade from Molly of Orangette, adapted from The Zuni Café Cookbook 
Panade with Kale, Butternut Squash, Cauliflower and Fontina Cheese from the New York Times, adapted from Tartine Bread by Chad Robertson 
How to Make Panade from Leftovers by Emma Christensen 
Show Full Recipe
Brussels Sprouts, Mushroom & Goat Cheese Casserole 
75 mins 
Kale, Mushroom, and Cheddar Bake 
90 mins 
Ratings
French Onion Soup 
80 mins 
Ratings
Mom's Stovetop Turkey Stuffing 
3 hrs 
Ratings
Beef Brisket Pot Roast 
4 hrs 
Ratings
Thanksgiving Stuffing with Sausage and Apples 
80 mins 
Ratings
Olive-Stuffed Roasted Mini-Pepper Crostini with Caramelized Onions 
70 mins 
Pork Crown Roast 
3 hrs 
Ratings
Spicy Lamb Stew with Chickpeas 
2 hrs 
Ratings
Stuffed Delicata Squash with Pancetta and Goat Cheese 
45 mins 
Ratings
Slow Cooker Banana Bread Pudding 
3 hrs 
Ratings
Hearty Roasted Vegetable and Chicken Stew 
75 mins 
Ratings
What's in Season - February Produce Guide 
Jamaican Beef Stew with Scotch Bonnets, Ginger and Allspice 
2 hrs 
Chicken and Rice Casserole 
95 mins 
Ratings
Summer Flatbread with Corn, Zucchini, and Pickled Peppers 
40 mins 
SimplyRecipes.com
Sign up for our weekly newsletters! Ready to cook? 
Email Address Sign up 
There was an error. Please try again.
Let’s be friends!
Instagram
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Recipes 
Quick & Easy 
In the Kitchen 
Buying Guides 
Holidays & Seasons 
About Us
Advertise
Terms of Use
Careers
Editorial Guidelines
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Contact
California Privacy Notice
EU Privacy
Simply Recipes is part of the Dotdash publishing family. 
Your Privacy Rights
Simply Recipes and our third-party partners use cookies and process personal data like unique identifiers based on your consent to store and/or access information on a device, display personalized ads and for content measurement, audience insight, and product development. To change or withdraw your consent choices for SimplyRecipes.com, including your right to object where legitimate interest is used, click below. At any time, you can update your settings through the "EU Privacy" link at the bottom of any page. These choices will be signaled globally to our partners and will not affect browsing data. List of Partners (vendors)
We and our partners process data to:
Actively scan device characteristics for identification. Use precise geolocation data. Store and/or access information on a device. Select personalised content. Create a personalised content profile. Measure ad performance. Select basic ads. Create a personalised ads profile. Select personalised ads. Apply market research to generate audience insights. Measure content performance. Develop and improve products. List of Partners (vendors)
I Accept Show Purposes
