https://www.pizzacappuccino.com/recipe/sardinian-panadas/
Home
Recipe Search
News
Contact
Sign Up Newsletter
Just Authentic Italian Recipes
Find Recipes __
Recipe Type (Any) Breakfast Dessert Dinner Fruits Lunch Starter
Course (Any) Brunch Dessert Dinner Lunch Starter
Cuisine (Any) Friuli Venezia Giulia Italian\- Abruzzese\- Apulian\- Calabrese\- Campania\- Emilian\- Friuli Venezia Giulia\- Ligurian\- Lombard\- Milanese\- Neapolitan\- Piedmontese\- Roman\- Sardinian\- Sicilian\- Trentino\- Tuscan\- Umbrian\- Venetian
Skill Level (Any) Easy Expert Medium
Sardinian Panadas
3.6 out of 5 ) 
6Yield
6Servings
60 mPrep Time
25 mCook Time
1:25 hReady In
Print Recipe
Cuisine: Sardinian
Course: Lunch
Skill Level: Medium
522
SHARES
ShareTweet
PinterestMail
Sardinian Panadas (Panadas means breaded) are savory dumplings, stuffed with various types of meat, fish, cheese and vegetable-based dressing. It’s a characteristic dish of Sardinia Island, of ancient origin, even Nuragic.
Impanare” or wrap the food in bread dough and cook it twice. It was a loophole that began to spread throughout Italy between the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance. This to preserve meat and fish for longer, creating those that they would then be spread with the nickname “savory pies”.
Only in Sardinia, however, this type of recipe took the name of “Panada” or “Impanada”. The term was probably introduced during the period of Catalan domination on the island.
It is believed that the original recipe was provided with the filling of eels, since in the past eel fishing was one of the main sources of sustenance for the population of the island. Even today the municipalities of Assemini, Oschiri, Berchidda and Pattada dispute the paternity of the Panada. However Sardinian Panadas widespread throughout the Sardinian territory, where numerous festivals are held in his honor.
Sa Panada” was consumed on feast days or offered as a gift to people of a certain regard and relevance. It is a recipe of typically peasant origin, so for the preparation of Sardinian Panadas, simple, genuine and natural ingredients are used.
Ingredients
Dough 
Stuffing
Dough 
Lard (or butter): 150 g 
Flour 00: 500 g 
Salt: 1 teaspoon 
Egg yolk: 1 to polish the surface 
Stuffing
Pork: 250 g 
Lamb: 250 g 
Sausage: 100 g 
Onions: 1 
Potatoes: 500g 
Lard to taste 
Pitted olives: 100 g 
Dried tomatoes in oil: 100 g 
Saffron: 1 sachet 
Parsley: 1 tuft 
Garlic: 1 clove 
Extra Virgin Olive Oil: half a cup 
Black pepper to taste 
Nutrients in portion (100g) 
Calories 
306
Protein 
14g
Fat Total 
15g
Carb 
28g
Step by step method
Step 1 
Place the flour on the pastry board, add salt and put lard in the center, mixing it with a little warm water. Work the ingredients to obtain a smooth and compact dough, that you will let rest for 30 min.
Step 2 
In a large pan, sauté in the oil the meat cut into small pieces, together with the sausage and onion. 
Step 3 
After a few minutes over low heat, add the other ingredients and let them brown for a few minutes; if necessary, soften the mixture with a little water so as not to make it too dry.
Step 4 
Peel and cut into small cubes the potatoes.
Step 5 
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin and make a lot of discs with a glass; place the filling (meet and potatoes) in the center of each one and close it with another disk of dough, passing the toothed wheel over the edges. Brush the impanadas with the egg yolk and bake them for half an hour (or until they are golden on the surface) at 180 degrees. 
Tips & variations
Large panadas in a cake pan. Divide the dough into two parts to be spread in two thin disks, place the first in a round cake pan with the high edges previously greased, and fill with the preparation of meat and vegetables; cover with the other disk as a cover, closing the edges. At the center of the pan, make holes with a fork, so that during cooking the steam can come out easily. Place the pan in the oven and cook at 180 °, from 40 to 60 minutes, until the dough is golden. 
2\. You can keep the panada covered with the film in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Heat it in the oven before serving. It is possible to freeze panada both raw and cooked in the pan. Defrost it the day before in the refrigerator and then cook it or, if it is already cooked, heat it in the oven. 
3\. The secret to a perfect dish is in the dough: it must be soft enough to be pulled without breaking, so that you can close the panada. When you work it, then, be quick and, for the rest, always leave it covered with film, otherwise it will dry up and goodbye closing it! 
Tags:
Authentic Italian Food
Authentic Italian Recipe
Impanadas
Italian Cuisine
Pizzacappuccino
Sardinian Recipes
Sardinina Food
Related Recipes
Spaghetti Alla Carbonara
5/ 5)
Tagliolini with Truffle
0/ 5)
Erbazzone
3.5/ 5)
Leave Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Search for:
Hours Minutes Seconds
Start Clock
Ticking On
Weekly Special
Cooking Measurements
1 cup = 250 ml = 16 Tablespoons
1/2 cup = 125 ml = 8 Tablespoons
1/3 cup = 83 ml = 5.3 Tablespoons
1/4 cup = 62 ml = 4 Tablespoons
1 Pinch = 1/8 Teaspoon
Latest News
Matera’s Bread (Pane di Matera), One of the Best Breads in the World
November 29, 2021
11 Best Italian Pasta Dishes for Sunday Lunch
November 19, 2021
Bucatini, The Typical Pasta Of The City Of Rome
November 15, 2021
Focaccia of the Italian Gastronomical Tradition
November 6, 2021
Categories
Best Places
Food
Italian Food Tradition
Uncategorized
Wine and Drinks
We are Italians. We live in Italy. We love Italian food. PizzaCappuccino is the worldwide landmark for the authentic Italian recipes and the best Italian food. Our daily mission is to collect only the best authentic traditional Italian recipes. Cook Italian, Eat Italian! 
Get Social with Us
Copyright 2021 All rights reserved by Pizzacappuccino.com 
x
Login
Username
Password
Lost Password
Username or Email
Login Lost Password
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary 
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. 
SAVE & ACCEPT
Sign Up To Our Newsletter To Get The Latest Delicious Recipe! 
Name
Email
By entering your email address above, you are agreeing to be added to our newsletter database. You can find out how we store and process your data in our Privacy Policy and you can unsubscribe at any time.
