Country Style Artichoke Flan (pANADA)
First we prepare the dough for the artichoke panada: put on the countertop the semolina, a pinch of salt and lard (or extra virgin olive oil) and knead until crumbs. Add flush so much hot water as necessary to get a firm dough, smooth. elastic. Work the dough for at least 10 minutes with vigour. Wrap the dough in the food film and let stand for at least 45 minutes.
While the dough for the panada rests, We prepare the artichokes: clean the artichokes by eliminating the end, the tough outer leaves, the extreme portion of the shank, which also goes bald. Divide the artichokes in two, clean them from the inner white beard and soak them in cold water acidulated with the juice of one lemon. In this way the artichokes do not blacken.
Cut the artichokes in half and then into quarters. Sauté in olive oil a clove of garlic until golden brown. Add the garlic-flavored oil to the artichokes, salt and add half the chopped parsley. The artichokes are cooked because then have to cook in the oven for a long time.
Peel potatoes, wash and slice into thick slices one centimeter. Keep the potatoes to soak in cold water for at least 30 minutes, changing the water a couple of times, to eliminate more starch can. Season the potatoes with a thread of extra virgin olive oil, a clove of garlic, finely chopped, the rest of the chopped parsley and a little salt up. Mix well.
Grease a high-edged baking tray with extra virgin olive oil and sprinkle it with a little reground durum wheat semola. Divide the dough into two parts. Deriving from a piece of dough into a sheet, not too thin (about half a centimeter). Coat with semolina dough the base and sides of the pan. Prick the bottom with the tines of a fork and arrange over the potatoes into slices. They will also serve to absorb the moisture that will develop during cooking inside the panada. Pour over the potatoes artichokes and distribute the Sardinian pecorino Dolce chopped not too small (this is my variation to the original recipe).
Obtain from the other half of the dough a second sheet of the same thickness as the first. Cover the panada by tucking the flaps of the semola puff inside and sealing the outside by pinching the two sheets with your fingers. At this point, you can leave the panada as it is, or you can hide the 'pinched' edge with a braid made with the advanced dough. I proceeds from puff two thin cords and then twined them together. Inumidisco just the edges of the panada and decoration with braided cords pressing to make them adhere well to the salt cake.
Now all you have to do is make the 'fireplace', a small central hole from which moisture will leak during cooking. Drill a hole in the center of the Panada with a sharp boxcutter and, to keep it open, insert a piece of oven paper or aluminum foil.
Preheat the oven to 170 degrees static and bake the artichoke panada for about an hour or until evenly golden. Allow to cool before tasting. Traditionally, panada is served by removing the top cover and distributing the filling and the dough in the plates. I prefer to cut slice. Bon appétit!