https://www.cottercrunch.com/no-bake-cinnamon-vanilla-breakfast-protein-bites/
Get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Cookbook
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Cotter Crunch
Delicious Healthy Gluten Free Recipes
Recipes
By Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
By Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Condiments
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
No Bake Bites
Power Bowls
Sides and Salads
Slow Cooker & Instant Pot
Snacks and Appetizers
Stews and Soups
Quick Meals
Videos
Meal Plans
Shop
Cookbook
Favorite Products
eBooks
Printables
About
Start Here
Search this website
Search this website
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites + Video
by Lindsay Cotter · 01/22/2019
GFDairy FreeVeganJump to Video
Jump to Recipe
3.6 from 225 reviews
These Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites are super easy to make, with NO BAKING required! Healthy, great for snacks or breakfast on the go, and kid-friendly. Learn how to make the gluten-free and vegan-friendly no-bake protein bites in my step by step video._
You guys!!! We’re bringing back a breakfast “meal prep” favorite! G luten free no bake protein breakfast bites! Yep, these bites have been given a little makeover and an update, just for this post. And why I am republishing it today.
The truth is, I have been working on rewriting both of my Healthy Bites ebooks (aka no bake energy and protein balls). My first ebook was created in Spring 2009! That’s almost a decade ago. Whoa! _I figured it might be time to update and upgrade. _These healthy bites recipes include a ton of food allergy friendly options; vegan , paleo, nut free, no sugar, and just plain gluten-free protein bite options. All no-bake, of course. We’re-testing the recipes, tweaking the ingredients, etc. Phew, we’re ALMOST DONE!
That being said, I’m excited to share one of my VERY FAVORITE no bake protein breakfast bite recipes from the first ebook and now one of the MOST POPULAR on pinterest.
Ingredients to make NO BAKE BREAKFAST BITES
Cinnamon (lots)
Gluten Free Oats or your favorite gluten free or grain free cereal
Nut Butter or Sunflower seed butter
Honey or Maple Syrup
Vanilla
Vanilla Protein powder or peanut flour (Collagen protein or egg white protein also works for those looking for a paleo option)
Almond flour
Need nut substitutes? Don’t you worry, I have that covered in the recipe notes below!
HOW TO MAKE CINNAMON VANILLA PROTEIN BREAKFAST BITES
Simple, grab your favorite vanilla protein powder, combine it with your favorite gluten free cereal/oats, and then roll it all together with cinnamon and nut butter. OR you can blend it all together (minus the honey) in a food processor then transfer that batter into a large bowl and add honey. Mix and roll!
In the video below (sorry it’s an oldie but goodie), you will see I have several options for the gluten free cereal base. Oats, rice crisps, gluten free Chex cereal, banana chips, etc. Whatever works, as long as you get a good base “meal/flour.” You can do that by using gluten free oats or by grinding up your cereal/granola. See above.
Either way, then end result is a batch of extremely delicious breakfast bites! Similar to taste to that of a cinnamon bun.. okay not really, more like a snickerdoodle meets oatmeal cookie. Still good for breakfast, in my opinion.
Let me know what you think of the video or if you have any questions about these no-bake breakfast protein bites! There are lots of easy substitutes if need be. Oh and be sure to use a CREAMY nut butter that stirs easy. That’s crucial! 
Now, let’s continue this whole breakfast with protein talk…
How can I get protein for breakfast (other than eggs)?
It’s important that all of us eat a good amount of breakfast protein – it helps to kickstart the body into action for the day. The thing is, not everyone likes or can eat eggs, so I like to have options to offer for good egg-free sources of protein for breakfast. Obviously, the Cinnamon Vanilla Breakfast Protein bites are a high-protein source, but here are a few more high-protein breakfast ideas:
Non-soy protein powder – I like to add it to smoothies. Try my Creamy Coconut Spirulina Superfood Smoothie or Orange Probiotic Immunity Boosting Smoothies.
Quinoa – It’s super delicious anytime, but one of my favorite ways to eat quinoa is in this Creamy Vegan Pumpkin Quinoa Breakfast.
Nut butter – Peanut butter, almond, cashew, walnut – choose your favorite! Load it up onto apple slices, schmear it onto gluten-free toast, or make these Dark Chocolate Almond Butter Breakfast Cookies.
Alright, I think we are fully ready to tackle a protein rich breakfast! Ready to make and NO BAKE?
Cinnamon Vanilla No Bake Protein Breakfast Bites
Gluten free, vegan friendly, and seriously so good for breakfast on the go or post workout protein snacking!
Print
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites {No Bake, Gluten Free, Vegan Friendly}
3.6 from 225 reviews
Author: Lindsay Cotter
Total Time: 12 minutes
Yield: 16-18 bites 1x
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
These Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites are super easy to make, with NO BAKING required! Healthy, great for snacks or breakfast on the go. Kid-friendly. gluten-free, and vegan-friendly!
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
3/4 cup of gluten free rolled oats or gluten free cereal of choice
1/4 cup (around 65–75 grams) Vanilla Protein Powder (see notes for substitutes)
1/2 cup almond flour or more oat flour if can’t have nuts. (You can also just finely grind raw almonds) ·
1 heaping tablespoon ground Cinnamon (extra for coating)
1/4 to 1/3 cup nut butter or sunflower seed butter (creamy no stir works best)
1/2 tsp to 1 tsp Vanilla extract
1/4 to 1/3 cup maple syrup or honey if you are not vegan.·
Instructions
1. Grind up your oats or cereal in a food processor and transfer into a mixing bowl. This is optional. You can keep them whole as well and adjust the addition of honey.
2. Add your almond meal, protein powder, cinnamon, and nut butter. Stir ingredients all together. 
1. Alternatively (you can blend all at once by placing ingredients (minus the honey) in the food processor or blender and blend until a mealy batter is formed. Scrap sides and transfer to bowl (see blog post pictures).
3. Add in your honey and vanilla then mix again well with hands.
4. You might need to add more honey or nut butter if the batter gets to dry. (see notes)
5. Roll into 1-1.5 inch balls and place on a cookie tray or plastic ware with parchment paper underneath.
6. Let them freeze for 20-30 minutes then transfer into a Ziploc bag.
7. Dust with additional cinnamon and vanilla protein if desired.
8. Keep in fridge or freezer for up to 6 weeks.
Notes
Don’t have protein powder? You can substitute with peanut flour or Oat flour (but will need to add a little vanilla) or if you would prefer a paleo friendly protein, then Egg white protein or Collagen Protein Powder will do the trick!
You might need to add more honey or nut butter if the batter gets to dry. It depends on the types of protein and flour you use, adjust as you mix, before rolling.
Prep Time: 12 min
Category: snack
Method: mix
Cuisine: american
Nutrition
Serving Size: 1 cookie
Calories: 78
Sugar: 4.1g
Sodium: 0.8mg
Fat: 2.8g
Saturated Fat: 1.5g
Carbohydrates: 11g
Fiber: 1.1g
Protein: 3g
Cholesterol: 6.1mg
Keywords: no bake, protein balls, energy balls, gluten free, snacks, healthy snacks, vegan, cinnamon roll
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @cottercrunch on Instagram and hashtag it cottercrunch
Enjoy and keep me posted!
Do you have a go-to no-bake protein bites recipe? Do share!_
Cheers,
78242 shares
Share
Tweet
Pin
Categories: Has Video, No Bake Bites, Snacks and Appetizers, Vegan, Vegetarian Tags: breakfast to go, gluten free snacks, how to, protein bites
You May Also Like...
Homemade Gluten-Free Graham Crackers (Vegan Option)
Chocolate Coconut Protein Balls (Low Sugar)
Dark Chocolate Chunk No Bake Protein Balls {2 Ways}
Vegan Cowboy Cookies ENERGY Bites {No Bake}
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Have a question? Use ctrl+f or ⌘+f on your computer or the “find on page” function on your phone browser to search existing comments!
Primary Sidebar
Hi, y'all, I’m Lindsay Cotter, a Nutrition Specialist with a focus on Gluten Free eating. I love creating delicious nourishing food that anyone can enjoy.
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Sign up now & get 5 FREE RECIPES from my Nourishing Superfood Bowls Cookbook
Reader Favorites
Anti-Inflammatory Meal Plan {Dairy Free, Gluten-Free Recipes & Tips}
Cinnamon Vanilla Protein Breakfast Bites + Video
Curried Cauliflower Rice Kale Soup {Vegan, Whole30}
How to Make Gluten Free Roux for Keto Sauces + Soups
Dried Orange Slices (Oven or Dehydrator)
Cranberry Balsamic Roasted Chicken {Paleo} + VIDEO
About · Studio · Shop · Contact
Recipes by Diet
Dairy Free
Gluten Free
Grain Free
Low Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Whole 30
Recipes by Type
Breakfasts
Casseroles
Desserts
Drinks
Main Dishes
Power Bowls
Sides & Salads
Snacks & Appetizers
More
Meal Plans
Quick Meals
Recipes with Video
Recipe Round Ups
Recipes
Meal Plans
Shop
About
Start Here
Copyright © 2021 · Cotter Crunch · Disclaimer & Terms · Privacy Policy
78242 shares
