https://www.196flavors.com/czech-republic-smazeny-syr/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Europe / Central Europe / Czech Republic / Smažený sýr
Smažený sýr
January 14, 2018 by Mike Benayoun 3 Comments
Tweet
Share 73
Pin 272
Email
345 Shares
Smažený sýr_ (fried cheese in Czech) is a recent post war, nontraditional addition to Czech cuisine. It consists in slices of cheese that are breaded before being pan-fried or deep-fried.
Smažený sýr is typically prepared with Edam, Gouda or Muenster, but it can also be prepared with Hermelín (Czech camembert) or Niva (Czech blue cheese). It is traditionally served with a Czech version of tartar sauce ( _tatarská omáčka_ ), and French fries or boiled potatoes.
This delicious vegetarian delicacy is also called _smažák_ in Czech, _vyprážaný syr_ in Slovak, and _rántott sajt_ in Hungarian. When it includes ham or bacon, it is called smažený sýr se šunkou or plněný smažený sýr.
In the Czech Republic, smažený sýr is not an appetizer, but rather a full vegetarian meal. The breaded cheese slices can be eaten with a fork and knife, and dipped in tartar sauce, or they can be placed in a bun to make a sandwich.
Related Posts:
Smažený sýr absolutely needs to be consumed hot as when it cools, the cheese hardens. It tastes best when the hot cheese melts and oozes out of the crusty shell while cutting it.
Cheese is thought to have originated in the Middle East. The process of cheese making is depicted in murals in Egyptian tombs that date from 2,000 BC.
Fried cheese was probably popular in both Ancient Greece and Ancient Egypt. Athenaeus, the 3rd century Greek food writer, relates that the Greek poet Pherecrates spoke a lot about “melted cheese sizzling”. The Greek delicacy is known as saganaki, and this is the one I flambéed (American style) in my own kitchen… with a fire extinguisher not too far…
In Medieval times, fried cheese was also a common food in Egypt where it was called _gebna maqleyya_ (جبنة مقلية). To this day, this Egyptian snack is cooked in oil and served with bread by street vendors.
Fried cheese is also common in a number of other countries, including Cyprus, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey, where it is served as a breakfast dish.
Queso frito_ (fried cheese) is served as a tapas dish in Spain as well as in Central America. In Spain, fried cheese balls are called _delicias de queso_. _Malakoff_ are balls of fried cheese that are traditional in Western Switzerland. _Kaassoufflé_ is a Dutch snack consisting of melted cheese inside a thin dough-based wrap (often puff pastry) which has been breaded before being deep-fried.
And let’s not forget the Italian version called _mozzarella fritta_ , and is now quite popular in the United States, especially in the form of mozzarella sticks, that are often served with marinara sauce or ranch sauce. _Mozzarella in carrozza_ (mozzarella in a carriage) is a specialty from Southern Italy which consists in a fried cheese sandwich, similar to a French _croque-monsieur_ or American grilled cheese sandwich.
I had the opportunity to taste smažený sýr in Prague a couple years ago, as we visited the beautiful capital with the whole family. There, we met with one of my best friends’ parents, originally from Prague, and we feasted at a traditional Bohemian restaurant, after a visit at the top of the Old Town Hall.
This recipe is validated by our culinary expert in Czech cuisine, Kristyna Koutna. You can find Kristyna on her food blogCzechCookbook.com._
SaveSaved
Print
4 from 1 vote
Smažený sýr
Smažený sýr (fried cheese in Czech) is prepared with slices of cheese that are breaded before being fried. It is traditionally served with tartar sauce and French fries.
Prep Time10 mins
Cook Time15 mins
Total Time25 mins
Course: Appetizer, Main Course
Cuisine: Czech, Vegetarian
Servings: 4 people
Author: Mike Benayoun
Ingredients
4 ½-inch/1cm thick slices cheese (Edam, Gouda or Hermelín)
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 eggs , beaten
1 cup bread crumbs
2 cups vegetable oil
For the tartar sauce (tatarská omáčka)
4 tablespoons mayonnaise
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 teaspoon mustard
4 gherkins (pickles) , finely chopped
1 tablespoon capers
½ onion , grated
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Place the flour in a shallow bowl, the eggs in another and the breadcrumbs in a third.
Dredge a slice of cheese in the flour.
Then dip it in the beaten eggs, submerging it to wet it all over.
Finally cover with bread crumbs, making sure the cheese slice is completely coated.
Repeat the same operation with the egg and bread crumbs. The double coating ensures the cheese does not leak when frying.
Set aside on a plate and repeat with the other slices of cheese.
Chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes.
Czech tartar sauce (tatarská omáčka)
Meanwhile, prepare the tartare sauce by mixing together the mayonnaise, vinegar, mustard, gherkins, capers and onion in a small bowl. Season to taste with salt and pepper and set aside.
Heat the oil in a deep fryer or in a pan at medium/high heat until it reaches 350F/180C.
Deep fry the cheese slices for about 20 seconds.
Serve immediately with boiled potatoes or French fries, as well as tartar sauce.
Notes
Deep frying will be a quicker frying method and will avoid any leak of cheese. You can also pan fry the cheese slices on each side in hot oil until golden brown.
Mike Benayoun
Mike is “the devil” of the 196 flavors’ duo. Nicknamed as such by his friends, he is constantly in search of unusual recipes and techniques with impossible to find ingredients. The devil is always pushing the envelope, whether it is with humor or culinary surprises.
Tweet
Share 73
Pin 272
Email
345 Shares
Filed Under: Appetizer, Central Europe, Czech Republic, Dairy, Europe, Hungary, Main Course, Slovakia, Vegetarian Tagged With: bread crumbs, caper, Edam, egg, flour, mayonnaise, mustard, pickle, tarragon, vegetable oil, vinegar
Previous Post: « Karbanátky
Next Post: Bublanina »
Reader Interactions
Comments
February 14, 2018 at 6:55 pm
Not the healthiest recipe for sure, but delicious, authentic and easy! Keep up the good work!
Reply
February 14, 2018 at 7:01 pm
Ah, definitely Nicole. DietStartsTomorrow 😉
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
