https://www.ilovefood.com.mt/recipes/galletti-recipe/
Search for:
About us
Features
Recipes
Calendar
Heritage Malta
Newsletter
News
Podcast
Discussions
Search Hotels in Malta
Destination
Check-in date
Check-out date
I don't have specific dates yet 
Search
Ingredients:
1kg self-raising flour
1 tsp salt
50g fresh yeast
1 tsp sugar
1 cup warm water
60g melted butter
Extra warm water
Method:
1\. Dissolve the yeast and the sugar in a cup of warm water until the mixture is frothy. 
2\. Mix the flour and the salt in a large bowl and add the melted butter. 
3\. Add the yeast mixture and mix well. 
4\. Add the warm water as you go along to ensure a doughy consistency. When done, the dough should not be sticky. 
5\. Knead the dough on a bench top. Then place in a large bowl, cover it and leave the dough to rest for an hour or so. 
6\. Knead the dough again and cut it in small portions. 
7\. Roll out the portions as thinly as possible (you can use a pasta machine) and with a scone cutter or a glass cut the pastry in small circles. 
8\. Place the individual circles on a lightly dusted oven tray and bake until they are golden brown. 
Difficulty: Easy
This entry was posted in Appetizers, By Course, By Occasion, Party Food, Picnics, Recipes and tagged food, Recipes, traditional maltese recipes. Bookmark the permalink. 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
CAPTCHA Code 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
appetizers beef bread cake Cheeselets chicken christmas dessert dip drink Easter event Fish food gbejniet helu Honey Hut lamb Maltese maltese recipes meat Newsletter pasta Pastizzi pastry peppers pie pies pork pork stew Recipes salad sauce seafood soup Stew Stuffat summer sweets Tomato torta traditional traditional maltese recipes vegetables
Home | About us | Features| Recipes | Events Calendar | Restaurant Guide | Heritage Malta | Contact us
Cyberspace Solutions Ltd 
