https://www.olivetomato.com/greek-barley-rusks/
HOME
Recipes
ABOUT
Services
Cookbook
Mediterranean Diet Guide
Greek Food
What Greeks Eat
When Greeks Eat
Greek Food Dictionary
SUBSCRIBE
Authentic Greek Barley Rusks – Paximadi Kritiko
Finally, here is the recipe so many of you have been asking for! Authentic Greek Barley rusks. Not very easy to find outside of Greece, but so delicious and hearty! This Barley rusk is actually a Cretan rusk and is essentially double baked bread that is made with barley flour and sometimes a whole wheat flour. Making rusks was practiced in families that could not bake bread very often so they made these rusks. In addition rusks lasted a long time and traveled well. Barley flour was often used because it was more filling, which was necessary in those lean times.
This type of rusk is present everywhere in Cretan cuisine which is known to be the prototype of the Mediterranean diet. It is either round shaped like a bagel and is called a _kouloura_ or cut in thick slices and is called a _dakos_. It is slightly soaked in water and drizzled with olive oil and then consumed with cheese or tomato or olives, sometimes just olive oil and oregano. Its most famous use is the Cretan Dakos which is a barley rusk drizzled with olive oil and topped with grated tomato, fresh cheese, olives and sometimes capers. I call it a Cretan salad.
These rusks are a staple in our home. I often eat them as a snack or breakfast using any topping on hand, sometimes I break them and add them to salads and soups like croutons. Most often we use them in the place of bread for dipping in the sauces and olive oil of the various vegetable casseroles. We love the crunchy texture.
Rusk Nutrition
Rusks -called _paximadia_ in Greek- are made in all parts of Greece, and what makes the Cretan rusks unique is the fact that they are made with whole grain barley flour, this makes them extremely healthy. Due to the fiber these rusks provide a feeling of satiety, barley flour also contains beta-glucan, a fiber that is known to be effective in reducing cholesterol levels as well as having prebiotic activity which helps increase good bacteria in our digestive system.
These particular rusks are 100% whole grain and so they can be somewhat tough and hard, that’s why it is important to pass them under some water (just a few drops) so that they can soften a bit, but still have a crunch. There are a variety of ratios of different flours to be used, I wanted the 100% whole grain version, so I only used whole grain flours and used a 50/50 ratio (barley/wheat). You can play with ratios. Generally more barley flour will result in a darker rusk. Also, this recipe requires a bit of kneading, I used my hands (instead of a mixer) and I have to say after a while, I found the kneading to be surprisingly calming.
Luckily in Greece we have plenty of traditional rusks available at bakeries and markets and if you are in Greece I recommend buying a bunch of bags to take home as they have a very long shelf life, but if you are not visiting Greece anytime soon, then here is the recipe, I very much enjoyed making them!
Jump to Recipe
Authentic Greek Barley Rusks – Paximadi Kritiko
Prep Time: 1 hour 25 minutes
Cook Time: 3 hours
Total Time: 4 hours 25 minutes
Course: Bread
Cuisine: Greek, Mediterranean, Vegan
Servings: 20
Author: Elena Paravantes RDN
Print Recipe Pin Recipe
Ingredients
25 grams 0.8 ounces fresh yeast (2 ½ teaspoons dry yeast)
a pinch of salt plus ½ teaspoon for the dough
½ pound whole grain barley flour
½ pound whole grain wheat flour
½ teaspoon sugar
About 1 ½ cup lukewarm water
Instructions
In a large measuring cup or bowl we place the yeast (you can break it up) about a half cup lukewarm water (not hot) and a pinch of sugar and mix. Let it sit for about 10 minutes when it starts bubbling on the surface. If you are using dry yeast follow the manufacture’s directions.
In a large bowl, mix the flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt and the sugar.
Once the yeast mixture has bubbled, make a whole in the middle of the flour mixture and add the yeast mixture, than add 1 1/2 cup water and start kneading until you have soft (not thick dough) that does not stick to your fingers- I kneaded for about 10 minutes. If you are using a mixer, use the dough hook and mix on low speed until dough is soft and does not stick to the sides of the bowl. If dough is too dry add gradually a bit more lukewarm water.
Shape into a ball and place in a greased bowl. Cover and let it sit in a warm place until it raises (about an hour).
Once the dough has risen, knock back the dough and shape it in a long loaf about 1 1/2 inches (3 cm) wide. Cut (not all the way through) in slices and cover the dough and let it rise again.
Preheat the oven at 350 F (180 C).
Now bake the loaf for about 1 hour.
Remove from the oven and lower temperature of oven to 210 F (100 C).
Once the dough has cooled just enough handle it, separate the slices (I used a knife to do this) and spread them on a pan.
Bake for 2 hours until completely dry.
Let them cool completely and store on airproof container
DID YOU MAKE THIS RECIPE? Leave a comment or share on instagram and mention @greekdiet
Photos by Elena Paravantes © All Rights Reserved
69 __
Elena Paravantes RDN
Elena Paravantes, RDN is a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist, Writer and consultant specializing in the Mediterranean Diet and Cuisine. She has been active as a clinician, consultant and lecturer for 20 years, both in the U.S. and Greece. An expert on the Greek Mediterranean Diet, her interviews and articles have been published in many publications including CNN, U.S. News and World Report, Prevention, NPR, and Shape. Elena has collaborated with a number of organizations including Loyola University, Yale University, University of Missouri, Louisiana State University, and the American College of Greece.
You Might Also Like
Summer Spanish Salad – Pipirrana
Ancient Greek Inspired Olive Tapenade
Greek Stewed Octopus in Tomato Sauce and Pasta
69 Comments
Reply Parmesan Toasts - Olive Tomato November 12, 2021 at 10:55 am
Authentic Greek Barley Rusks – Paximadi Kritiko […]
Reply Patricia September 20, 2021 at 11:01 pm
I made these for the first time today and they came out rather small–about the size of a large cracker. They rose nicely, but seemed to shrink in the oven. I did handle the dough a lot when shaping the logs and cutting them. Should I have been more gentle? Let them rise longer? Not as long? I followed the recipe religiously, making two 1 1/2 inch logs out of it . . . if you have any advice for me, I’d love to have it!
Reply Elena Paravantes RDN September 21, 2021 at 5:08 am
Hi Patricia, These are meant to be smaller paximadia. About 3 1/2 inch long 2 inches wide. Sometimes over kneading can cause shrinkage.
1 2 3
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Name 
Email 
Website
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Previous Post
Greek Style Olives May Be Healthier Than Spanish and California Style Olives New Study Shows
Next Post
Mediterranean Spinach Salad with Feta and White Beans
ORDER NOW ON: 
Amazon | Barnes and Noble | Indiebound | Target | Books-a-Million
Subscribe!
Welcome to Olive Tomato!
Join Elena Paravantes, award winning Registered Dietitian Nutritionist and Writer and THE Mediterranean Diet Expert. She provides a lifetime of experience -being raised on the Mediterranean Diet-, with tried and tested family recipes, guidance on how to follow the Diet and the latest research. More here...
The material that appears on Olive Tomato is for educational purposes only and may not be construed as medical advice or instruction._
OliveTomato receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers_. __
Privacy Policy
2011-2021 OliveTomato All Rights Reserved. 
Back to top __
