https://www.196flavors.com/czech-republic-gulas-goulash/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Europe / Central Europe / Czech Republic / Guláš (Goulash)
Guláš (Goulash)
August 6, 2019 by Renards Gourmets 3 Comments
Tweet
Share 201
Pin 2K
Email
2K Shares
Goulash is not emblematic of just one country. It is THE national dish of an entire region of Central Europe. The Czechs, Hungarians, Moldovans, feast on this extraordinarily fragrant goulash recipe from the first frost.
The Carpathian region, straddling more than eight countries, was at the origin of this dish which, before becoming festive, as is often the case in the history of gastronomy, started with peasants that were exhausted and hungry after a hard day in the fields.
Where is goulash from?
The spelling may differ from one country to another ( _gulyásleves_ in Hungary, _gulasch_ in Austria and Germany, _guláš_ in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, or _gulaş_ in Romania), but everyone at least agrees on the essential ingredient: paprika.
This deliciously intense red powder obtained from dried and crushed peppers gives a unique color and flavor to this “herd of cattle” soup (literal translation of goulash, or _gulyas_ in Hungarian).
Related Posts:
What is goulash?
If the details vary, this goulash soup almost always contains meat, or sometimes beans like in Hungarian goulash.
Generally, beef is used, but it can also be replaced with veal, pork, lamb or even horse, sheep and even game meat. Also, although it is considered a soup in Hungary, it is mostly referred to as a sauce in the Czech Republic.
The Czechs add marjoram, a digestive and slightly minty herb that is a refreshing cousin of oregano found throughout the vegetable gardens in Europe.
If the goulash has become a festive dish, it is because it is invariably linked to the notion of sharing. Pastoral life and transhumance forced peasants to travel long distances.
To avoid carrying too much weight, it was necessary to travel light, and a single cauldron made it possible to prepare the goulash and share it by the fireside in the vast plains of the Carpathians.
This goulash recipe probably dates back to the dawn of time, yet paprika, made from pepper, appeared in Europe in the seventeenth century. Since then, the recipe probably hasn’t changed much, just like all the great traditional dishes.
The Czechs accompany goulash with _knedliky_ or _knödel_. It is a kind of dumpling made with eggs, bread (or dough) and yeast. Once cooked and sliced, they deliciously accompany the scented sauce of goulash.
Since our trip to Prague, we are both very attached to Czech culture. A way of life quite close to the one we are used to in Paris. The people of Prague like to meet up after work to share a drink or a coffee, a piece of delicious cream cake and later, why not a goulash with a Pilsner, the iconic beer of the country.
What could be more delectable than wandering the streets of Prague in the evening, with a full belly and a warm heart. Cross the Charles Bridge, either on one side or the other of the city, and go for a stroll, admiring the beautiful facades of these ancient buildings. Get lost in the reflection of the moon on the Vltava and have a last drink on the docks.
Goulash is like the Czechs, generous and friendly, comforting and spicy, refreshing and warm at the same time. It is as rich as its origins, it has hints of this Western Slavic soul shared by millions of Europeans who love life intensely, who love to live with passion and a touch of sweet madness that is so seductive.
This goulash recipe is validated by our culinary expert in Czech cuisine, Kristyna Koutna. You can find Kristyna on her food blogCzechCookbook.com._
SaveSaved
Print
Guláš (Goulasch)
Goulash, a stew originally from Hungary, has for centuries been a popular comforting recipe in the Central European region of the Carpathian mountains.
Prep Time20 mins
Cook Time2 hrs 15 mins
Total Time2 hrs 35 mins
Course: Main Course
Cuisine: Czech, Hungarian
Servings: 4 people
Author: Renards Gourmets
Ingredients
2 lb beef (roast beef or chuck), cut into large cubes
5 onions , sliced
2 ripe tomatoes , peeled, seeded and crushed
5 tablespoons vegetable oil or lard, or a combination of both
2 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon marjoram
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
2 tablespoons paprika
½ teaspoon black pepper
4 whole allspice berries (nové koření)
1 red hot pepper , finely diced (optional)
2 cups beef or vegetable broth
Salt
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
Heat the oil or lard on medium heat and brown the meat on all sides for a few minutes.
Add onions, mix well and cook for 5 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring constantly.
Add tomatoes, hot pepper (optional), allspice, paprika and caraway. Mix well.
Cover with hot broth and mix well. Season with salt and pepper. Simmer for 2 hours over low heat, stirring gently.
30 minutes before the end of cooking, add marjoram and flour diluted in a small amount of boiling water. Adjust the seasoning if necessary.
Check the tenderness of the meat. Cooking may have to be extended if necessary. If this is the case, adjust the amount of broth accordingly. The sauce should be plentiful and unctuous.
Serve hot with fresh bread, as well as sliced scallions.
Renards Gourmets
Esther and Morgan are the two foodies behind Renards Gourmets. They are based in Paris where they develop four-handed recipes and culinary photos.
www.renardsgourmets.com
Tweet
Share 201
Pin 2K
Email
2K Shares
Filed Under: Austria, Central Europe, Czech Republic, Dairy-free, Europe, Germany, Hungary, Main Course, Meat, Romania, Slovakia, Soup Tagged With: allspice, beef, beef broth, caraway, chili pepper, flour, marjoram, onion, pepper, tomato
Previous Post: « Jallab
Next Post: Po’ Boy »
Reader Interactions
Comments
December 29, 2019 at 4:58 pm
Love it simply.
Reply
March 25, 2020 at 7:13 pm
I made it with lamb and couldn’t get enough of it! Next, I am going to try it with chicken thighs. I did a few things differently than the recipe but I think the end result must have been pretty close to the what was intended. I cut the lamb into pretty small pieces, I used a ~15 oz can of crushed tomatoes, olive oil, I did not preheat the broth and I added the marjoram with all of the other spices. i simmered it for over 2 hours and it was incredible. The next morning I took it out of the refrigerator and removed the fat that had solidified on top. It seemed just as rich after I reheated it. I wish I could give it 10 stars!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
