https://www.196flavors.com/czech-republic-kulajda-polevka/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
196 flavors
196 countries. A world of flavors.
Search
Search for a recipe
Advanced Search
Recipes
By Course
By Region
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
By Diet
By Holiday
Flavors Map
Experts
About us
Register
Guest Book
Contact Us
Ebooks
You are here: Home / Continent / Europe / Central Europe / Czech Republic / Kulajda Polévka
Kulajda Polévka
January 27, 2018 by Vera Abitbol 7 Comments
Tweet
Share 38
Pin 321
Email
359 Shares
What is the real pearl of the Czech culinary tradition? What is unique and distinguishes it from the rest of the world? The answer is easy and without any doubt: soup! Today, I am sharing with you the recipe of _kulajda polévka_!
Prague, Bohemia, Moravia… And you immediately think of romantic walks, historic towns, mansions, ancient castles, precious crystals… Yet there is also another Czech Republic, very typical, made of strong flavors and authentic ingredients. Czech cuisine is definitely worth discovering. Delightful aromas, spicy flavors, robust dishes, irresistible desserts, and… excellent soups that are the soul of the country.
And when people talk to me about soup, I am always there because, like the Czechs, I just love soups!
Czech cooks are the specialists in the preparation of soups. These soups have a very ancient tradition in Czech gastronomy and they are so important that their preparation has been practically promoted to an art. From garlic soup to tripe soup or simple broth, Czech soups are just delicious and have an almost magical effect.
Related Posts:
Polévka je grunt!_ (soup is the base) as the very popular saying goes in the Czech Republic.
Soup, or _polévka_ in Czech, is served as a starter at every meal. It is such an important component of the Czech table that it even has its own festival!
Polívkování_ , the soup festival in Prague, offers a wide variety of soups from around the world. First of all, it features an extensive menu of all the most famous Czech soups ( _polévky_ ): for example, _kyselica_ or sauerkraut soup, _bíá fasolová_ or white bean soup, _bramboračka_ or potato soup with vegetable and obviously our kulajda.
In addition to Czech cuisine, you can also taste the most famous soups from around the world at the same festival, such as hot and sour soup, Japanese miso soup, Azerbaijan _dovgha_, Moroccan harira or the famous Spanish gazpacho. After savoring the soups, you can also enjoy delicious Czech desserts such as _kremrole_ or _bublanina_.
Our kulajda, just like the buchty brioche and many other Czech recipes, was born in southern Bohemia. This thick soup consists mainly of mushrooms and potatoes, but also sour cream, and poached quail or chicken eggs. It is deliciously scented with dill.
There are various speculations about the birth of the name _kulajda_. The most probable is that it may come from the modified name of the famous Southern Bohemian chef Adelajda Kuhová (1805-1898), who was the first to make this soup. She was from Germany. Her name, according to the Šumava tradition, was pronounced “Kuh Adelajde”, and after the suppression of some letters, it became kulajda.
It is also said that the name kulajda is related to the dialect verb _zakulat_ or _zakudlit_ , which means “to thicken”. Indeed, the kulajda is thickened with flour.
The word kulajda has various regional variations. In the Bohemia-Moravia highlands, it is called _kudlavka_ , and in Milevska and the whole district of Pisek, it is called _kulimajda_. 
One of the main ingredients of kulajda is the mushroom. All of us have tasted them on pizzas, in salads, in soups or simply in sauces. Perhaps you have been intrigued by their bizarre shape, which inspires many people who illustrate children’s stories. But have you ever wondered what mushrooms are, and what makes them grow, and how?
It is usually easy to recognize mushrooms. They have no leaves, no flowers, and no chlorophyll that would make them green. Often, they stand out in the middle of the vegetation. Many have a stem topped with a big hat. But there are different shapes and colors. Some mushrooms look like corals, others grow on tree trunks. Some are even luminescent!
We all often say, “It grows like mushrooms,” to define anything that develops very quickly.
Indeed, mushrooms spring from the ground in a very short time, often in one night. In reality, these strange living beings are formed of thin and long filaments, called hyphae, formed by very long cells which are under the ground and what we see emerge, commonly called mushroom, is only the fructiferous body.
In the Czech Republic, mushrooms are sacred! Mushroom picking is a national sport. As much as that of wild berries.
Mushroom picking is therefore very popular in the country. The Czechs have earned the reputation of “mushrooms fanatics” for their love of picking them, a phenomenon that has no equivalent in the world. The Czechs are also among the greatest specialists and connoisseurs of mushroom species.
More than 80% of people in the Czech Republic pick mushrooms at least once a year. For example, in 2016, each Czech household picked an average of 21 lb of mushrooms.
The search for mushrooms is an ideal way not only to pick them, but also to relax with friends or family while enjoying nature outdoors. Mushroom enthusiasts must however take certain precautions because the forest can often become a hostile and dangerous environment. It is very important to recognize the edible fungi very well to avoid any poisoning.
In the Czech Republic, the mushroom season starts in May and is in full swing in September. In most cases, the Czechs prefer to dry them for storage. This is also the oldest and most natural way of preserving mushrooms.
The lungs of Europe”. This is one of the names given to the wooded area that stretches along the borders of the Czech Republic with Austria and Germany. The Bohemian Forest features hundreds of miles of marked hiking and biking trails and, through the valleys, streams and rivers. A huge natural space to collect mushrooms!
The mushrooms that can be found in the Czech forests are mainly the classics: cepe, boletus, chanterelle, russula, lepiota or parasol mushroom. Other mushrooms, a little less common, are very much in demand and often grow in large quantities: it is especially the case for blusher (also called amanita), considered one of the best mushrooms.
Mushroom picking is also widespread in countries northeast of the Czech Republic, including Russia, Ukraine, Poland, and Slovakia.
Serbia and Montenegro are also major consumers of mushrooms. The recipe for the Montenegrin cream of mushroom soup is worth trying!
We absolutely loved the kulajda!
This recipe is validated by our culinary expert in Czech cuisine, Kristyna Koutna. You can find Kristyna on her food blogCzechCookbook.com._
SaveSaved
Print
5 from 1 vote
Kulajda Polévka
Kulajda is a traditional Czech thick soup, with mushrooms, potatoes, and cream, that is flavored with dill and topped with poached quail or chicken eggs.
Prep Time20 mins
Cook Time35 mins
Total Time55 mins
Course: Soup
Cuisine: Czech, Vegetarian
Servings: 4 personnes
Author: Vera Abitbol
Ingredients
8 oz. various fresh mushrooms (cepes, boletus, chanterelles, lepiotos, etc.)
3 tablespoons flour
4 cups vegetable broth (or water), boiling
8 tablespoons butter
5 medium potatoes , diced
6 tablespoons sunflower oil
1 cup sour cream
1 small bunch dill
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
4 whole allspice berries (nové korení)
6 tablespoons white vinegar
2 teaspoons sugar
2 bay leaves
8 quail eggs
Salt
Pepper , freshly ground
US Customary \- Metric
Instructions
For the soup
In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of sunflower oil over medium heat and sauté the mushrooms for 5 minutes, stirring very regularly.
In a large pot over medium-low heat, melt the butter and add the remaining 4 tablespoons of sunflower oil.
Stir in the flour until the mixture turns slightly browns.
Add the broth and beat a few seconds with a whisk.
Add the potatoes, mushrooms, caraway, bay leaves and allspice. Cover and cook until the potatoes are tender, about 15 minutes.
Remove the bay leaves and allspice. Add the cream.
Cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly.
Season with salt and pepper and add the dill, sugar and 3 tablespoons of vinegar.
For the poached quail eggs
Open each quail egg on the most curvy part of the egg with the tip of a knife, being careful not to pierce the yolk.
Pour the eggs into a small bowl and add 3 tablespoons white vinegar.
Set aside at room temperature for 5 minutes.
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil.
Create a swirl with a whisk and drop the eggs one by one into the whirlpool.
Cook each egg for 1 minute and cool immediately by placing in a large volume of ice water.
Serve each bowl of kulajda with 2 poached quail eggs on top.
Vera Abitbol
Vera is the “expert” of the 196 flavors’ duo. With over 30 years of experience in the kitchen, she is now sharing her skills as a private chef and cooking instructor.
Tweet
Share 38
Pin 321
Email
359 Shares
Filed Under: Central Europe, Czech Republic, Dairy, Europe, Gluten-free, Soup, Vegetarian Tagged With: allspice, dill, bay leaf, butter, butter, caraway, mushroom, sour cream, cumin, dill, egg, bay leaf, mushroom, egg, allspice, potato, potato, sour cream, vinegar, vinegar
Previous Post: « Pivní Sýr
Next Post: Houbový Kuba »
Reader Interactions
Comments
September 30, 2018 at 12:56 am
I’m not sure what this is but that is not kulajda at all. Whoever put this recipe on this site do not know what is (he, she) talking about………and QUAIL EGGS????? Lol My mother is turning in her grave 
Reply
September 30, 2018 at 5:13 am
Well, yes Eva. Maybe there are different versions of kulajda… but there are versions with quail eggs. Let me give you just one example from the menu of a Czech restaurant in Prague: https://www.vzatisi.cz/en/menu/a-la-carte/
Reply
November 13, 2018 at 3:55 pm
Well, maybe Eva and my family grew up on the more austere side of the tracks. Likely, they never got into a formal dining restaurant, certainly never when in the old country.
Reply
March 18, 2021 at 12:48 pm
My father had a Doctorate in Chemical Engineering and was one of the few who could leave the country during the communists days. We ate at a lot of upscale restaurants, such as they were back then. It was considered decadent to emulate any western ways, and that enforced a certain “basic” aspect to traditional Czech cuisine. No shrimp was eaten, and neither would anyone touch Lobster, though the question remains as to where on earth one would obtain Lobster. Oranges were a delicacy that only those who were allowed to shop at Tuzeks could hope to score one or twice a year. Kids used to share bubble-gum. 
Of course nowadays you can find most things that can be consumed. I’m sure that the Vietnamese food in Bohemia is fantastic. 
But traditional Czech Cuisine? I though that by definition the term predates the velvet revolution.
Reply
March 20, 2021 at 4:29 am
You still don’t know where lobsters exist? Then you must not know that lobster was the cheapest, poorest food for servants in areas where it is common. And, in many regions, oranges grow on trees so much that even homeless beggers can eat them if nothing else. It seems like communism succeeded in being a truly isolating, mind-altering cult.
But I do still wonder how quail eggs become common. There’s always something new to learn.
Reply
March 18, 2021 at 12:36 pm
I noticed that as well. My parents and grandparents would never hunt down quail eggs. That would have been considered decadent. In North Western Bohemia for sure,, here were chicken eggs, or Duck eggs. That’s it. all. The use of Sunflower oil is possible, but I never saw it in any kitchen that I remember. It seems that lard was used most of the time.
Perhaps this is an ancient Czech dish from 1992? 😉 Things do change.
Reply
October 16, 2021 at 8:39 am
This soup is really made of strong flavors and authentic ingredients. Nice!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Cuisine of the Month: Nordics
All the recipes
Mämmi
Karjalanpiirakka
Limpa
Kardemummabullar
Janssons Frestelse
Flygande Jacob
All the recipes
About Us
196 flavors is a unique world cuisine and food history website created and designed by Vera and Mike. (learn more)
Footer
196 flavors is a unique culinary website created and designed by Véra and Mike. It is the only trilingual (English, French and Spanish) world cuisine food website. Join us to discover unique, unusual, traditional and above all authentic recipes as well as the stories behind these recipes.
Privacy Policy 
Terms 
Contact
Copyright 2012 – 2021 196 Flavors | Privacy Policy | Affiliate & Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2021 · Foodie Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
