1\. HEAT olive oil in skillet over medium heat. Add mushrooms and saute until softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and thyme and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add chickpeas, salt, and pepper and cook until heated through, 3 to 4 minutes. 
2\. TURN heat to medium high. Add white wine to the pan and cook until most of the liquid has reduced, 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in the butter. 
3\. TOP the toast slices with the chickpea mixture. Serve warm.
1\. SAUTE onion in olive oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the cumin, coriander, paprika, and garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute. Add the chickpeas, raisins, and spinach and cook until the spinach is wilted, 2 to 3 minutes. 
2\. ADD the crushed tomatoes and the water, along with salt and pepper to taste. Allow mixture to simmer for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the tomato mixture has thickened slightly. Serve warm.
1\. ADD the Brussels sprouts to a large bowl. Drizzle with the olive oil and vinegar. Gently massage the Brussels sprouts with your hands to coat them with the olive oil and vinegar and help them soften slightly. Let sit for 5 minutes. 
2\. ADD the chickpeas, walnuts, and cheese; season to taste. Toss well. Serve at room temperature.
1\. COOK spaghetti according to package directions, reserving 1 cup of the cooking liquid. 
2\. SAUTE chickpeas in oil and butter in wide skillet over medium heat until warmed through 1 to 2 minutes. 
3\. REDUCE heat to medium-low. Add spaghetti to skillet, along with the cheese, pepper, and salt to taste. Add ¾ cup of the cooking liquid and stir until cheese melts and a creamy sauce forms. If mixture seems too dry, add the remaining ¼ c of cooking liquid 1 tablespoon at a time. Serve hot, topped with additional Parmesan cheese, if desired.
1\. PLACE chickpeas in medium bowl. Use a fork or potato masher to form a slightly chunky mixture with just a few whole chickpeas remaining. Add the soy sauce, lemon juice, tahini, sriracha, and garlic and mix well. Set aside. 
2\. SAUTE onion in olive oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the chickpea mixture, stirring occasionally, for 10 to 12 minutes, or until flavors are blended and some parts of the mixture have become browned and crispy. Garnish with the scallions. Serve hot.
1\. TOSS broccoli with the olive oil, salt, and pepper. Transfer to a baking sheet. Roast at 425˚ for 12 to 15 minutes, or until crispy and lightly browned. 
2\. TRANSFER hot broccoli to a large bowl. Add the chickpeas and the pesto. Toss to coat. Serve warm.
1\. MASH chickpeas with a fork or potato masher until slightly chunky, with just a few whole chickpeas remaining. 
2\. ADD pickles, olive oil, dill, pickle juice, mustard, and salt and pepper. Stir to combine. Serve at room temperature with veggies and crackers for dunking, or spread on a sandwich or wrap.
1\. COMBINE yogurt, 2 cloves of the garlic, the cumin, paprika, 2 teaspoon of the olive oil, and salt and pepper in a bowl and mix well. Set aside. 
2\. SAUTE chickpeas and remaining 2 cloves of garlic in remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat until fragrant and warmed through, 3 to 4 minutes. 
3\. SPOON a quarter of the yogurt mixture into one of the sweet potatoes. Top with a quarter of the chickpeas and 1 tablespoon of the pine nuts. Repeat with remaining sweet potatoes. Top with the dill. Serve warm.
1\. PROCESS the chickpeas, tahini, lemon juice, garlic, and salt until a paste forms. With the food processor running, add the water and process for 2 to 3 minutes until smooth and creamy. If you'd like the hummus even creamier, add 1 to 2 tablespoons more water. Set aside. 
2\. PEEL eggs and slice in half lengthwise. Use a spoon to scoop out the yolks. Save yolks for another use or discard. 
3\. SPOON one tablespoon of the hummus into each egg white half. (You may have some hummus left over.) Top deviled eggs with smoked paprika and cracked black pepper. Serve.
1\. SAUTE onion in the coconut oil over medium heat until translucent, 5 minutes. Add the garlic, ginger, and spices cook until fragrant, 1 minute. 
2\. ADD the plum tomatoes, the chickpeas, and ½ c of water. Simmer 10 minutes, or until the mixture has thickened slightly. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
3\. COMBINE yogurt and cucumber in a small bowl while chickpeas simmer. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve chickpea mixture warm topped with the yogurt.