https://laurenkellynutrition.com/sweet-potato-brussels-sprout-quinoa-bowl/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Lauren Kelly Nutrition
Home
About Me
Privacy Policy
Recipes
Props
Wellness
Services
Contact
Search
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
Search
About
Recipe Index
Contact
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
Home » Recipes » Vegan » Sweet Potato Brussels Sprouts Quinoa Bowl {Vegan, Gluten Free, Ready in 30 minutes}
Sweet Potato Brussels Sprouts Quinoa Bowl {Vegan, Gluten Free, Ready in 30 minutes}
Published: Jan 21, 2022 · Modified: Jan 21, 2022 by Lauren Kelly · This post may contain affiliate links.
Pin
Share
Tweet
Jump to Recipe
This Sweet Potato Brussels Sprouts Quinoa Bowl is a plant-based, protein packed bowl of healthy comfort food, all ready in 30 minutes!
These days I seem to get bored of foods easily. I used to have some chicken, some vegetables, pasta rice or quinoa and be happy. 
Lately I have been taking a huge bowl and just throwing everything in. And this time it came out delicious.
I love the fall flavors out there. Most people think of pumpkin and apples for fall, but there are so many more as well! 
Brussels sprouts, cranberries and sweet potatoes are also fall fruits and vegetables and are in season now. So basically I threw them in a large bowl with quinoa and sliced almonds and became a very happy girl.
Another great recipe...my Simple Roasted Brussels Sprouts. If you haven't tried roasting them yet, today is the day.
For all of those Brussels haters, I bet this would change your mind.
If you are looking for some other healthy dish inspiration, try this Eggplant Parmesan, Alfredo Spaghetti Squash, Slow Cooker Thai Chicken Soup or this Zucchini Ravioli. And all of these recipes would be even more delicious with some Spiked Apple Cider!
Why You Should Make This Sweet Potato Brussels Sprouts Quinoa Bowl
I made this for my husband and he added chopped sausage to his bowl for all the meat lovers out there. I was more than satisfied with this bowl just the way it is.
But that's the beauty of this dish. It's extremely versatile and the possibilities are endless.
I have also added shredded rotisserie chicken and leftover ground beef to this. My husband liked it both ways and it added a little extra protein as well.
Whatever you have in the house, go for it. This is kind of like one of those dinners you can just throw together. If you have broccoli or cauliflower, toss it in!
Oh and I have also added leftover roasted butternut squash instead of the sweet potatoes (again because it was already in my fridge) and that was yummy as well!
All of this fall-flavored-healthy-deciciousness is ready in 30 minutes too! What more can you ask for?
Especially on those busy weeknights when you are acting as a bus driver for your kids (which is most nights these days). I have also made it earlier in the day and reheated it before dinner time too.
That works. And it still tastes incredible!
Just promise me you will keep the Brussels sprouts in there, even if you think you don't like them. Brussels sprouts get such a bad rap.
The truth is, if they are prepared correctly then they are super delicious. Try to forget about those boiled Brussels sprouts that your grandma used to make.
Recipe Ingredients
Quinoa - Everyone's favorite super food! Quinoa is a huge source of plant-based protein and fiber and is extremely versatile in so many dishes. 
Vegetable broth \- You can also use chicken broth if you aren't vegan, both work great in this recipe. I always buy organic broths to make sure there's no junk in there.
Olive oil - Extra virgin olive oil is my absolute favorite and I use it in most of my recipes.
Ginger root - Ginger is such a powerful anti-inflammatory and is loaded with antioxidants which are compounds that prevent stress and damage to your body. Ginger also offers so much flavor. I used fresh ginger root in this recipe but if you need to substitute for ground ginger, you can use 14 teaspoon as a substitute. They both have so many health benefits.
Sweet potatoes - Another wonderful superfood! Sweet potatoes are filled with vitamins, minerals, nutrients and fiber. They are a powerhouse of nutrition.
Brussels sprouts - Even though these sprouts get a bad rap, they really are delicious. They are little tiny cabbages and are packed with fiber, vitamins and antioxidants.
Dried cranberries - Please read the ingredients for your dried cranberries, many of them contain so much unnecessary added sugar, even in the form of fruit juice. I use these dried cranberries all the time because it's not easy to find the unsweetened ones in grocery stores. I also love this recipe from All Day I Dream About For sugar free dried cranberries, it's so easy to make your own.
Almonds - You can use chopped almonds, chopped walnuts or chopped pecans in this recipe and they all taste delicious and add the perfect texture and crunch.
Recipe FAQ's and Expert Tips
I am not following a vegan diet, can I add some cheese to this quinoa bowl?
Yes, of course you can. I do want to say the this dish is flavorful all on it's own though. You can add Parmesan, Asiago or Romano cheese. These are hard cheeses that pack a powerful, flavorful punch. I also added Feta cheese once (because I love Feta and want to put it on everything!) but I think I liked it better with the harder cheese. But that's just a personal preference.
How do I store leftovers and how long do they last?
This I one of those dishes that I like to make on Sunday to have an easy, healthy lunch available for the week. I store it in an airtight container and it lasts in the refrigerator for up to 7 days.
I've tried many times, but I do not like Brussels sprouts at all. I love everything else in this dish, can I just leave the Brussels sprouts out?
You can either leave out the Brussels spouts or you can substitute with cauliflower, broccoli or even asparagus would all be lovely additions to this dish. Let me know what you try!
Related Recipes
Avocado Black Bean Quinoa Salad from Lauren Kelly Nutrition
One Pan Mexican Quinoa from Damn Delicious
Spiralized Beet Quinoa Salad from Lauren Kelly Nutrition
One Pan Broccoli Quinoa Skillet from Well Plated By Erin
Please feel free to follow me on Pinterest, Facebook and Instagram! Thanks for stopping by!
Creamy Chocolate Chip Overnight Oats {Vegan, Gluten Free, Dairy Free}
Coconut Quinoa Smoothie {Vegan, Gluten-Free, Dairy-Free}
Winter Fruit Salad with Ginger Chia Dressing {Vegan, Gluten-Free, Easy}
Chamomile Latte
Sweet Potato Brussels Sprout Quinoa Bowl
This healthy and delicious Sweet PotatoBrussels Sprouts Quinoa Bowl will be ready in 30 minutes!
5 from 16 votes
Print Pin Rate
Course: brunch, dinner, main dish, meatless, Side Dish, vegetarian
Cuisine: American
Diet: Gluten Free
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 20 minutes
Total Time: 30 minutes
Servings: 6 servings
Calories: 244kcal
Author: Lauren Kelly
Ingredients
1 cup quinoa rinsed
1 ½ cups vegetable broth can also use chicken broth
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 cloves garlic minced
½ onion minced
1 tablespoon fresh ginger root diced
2 cups sweet potatoes diced
1 cup sliced Brussels sprouts
2 tablespoons dried cranberries
¼ cup sliced almonds
Instructions
Place quinoa and broth into a pot. Bring to a boil over medium heat. Cover and reduce heat to low, simmer for 15-20 minutes until all liquid is absorbed.
Meanwhile while quinoa is cooking, place olive oil, garlic, onion and ginger into large skillet. Cook over medium heat 3-4 minutes until onions are translucent. Add sweet potatoes and brussels sprouts and let cook for 10 minutes or until they soften.
Add cooked quinoa to skillet and thoroughly combine.
Remove from heat.
Add cranberries and almonds and mix again.
Notes
Place in an airtight container and place in he refrigerator for up to 7 days.
This is one of this dishes that taste even better the next day so go ahead and make a big batch to have such ready for the week.
Nutrition
Calories: 244kcal | Carbohydrates: 31g | Protein: 7g | Fat: 9g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Polyunsaturated Fat: 2g | Monounsaturated Fat: 5g | Trans Fat: 1g | Sodium: 262mg | Potassium: 403mg | Fiber: 5g | Sugar: 6g | Vitamin A: 6419IU | Vitamin C: 2mg | Calcium: 57mg | Iron: 2mg
Tried this Recipe? Pin it for Later!Mention @lkellynutrition or tag lkellynutrition!
You might also like
Pin
Share
Tweet
Arugula Beet Salad with Candied Pecans & Gorgonzola Cheese
Creamy Chocolate Chip Overnight Oats {Vegan, Gluten Free, Dairy Free} »
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. Jessica
February 11, 2022 at 9:57 am
Ok, I HAVE to double the recipe next time because we loved it so much and I could eat on this for days!! Thank you so much!
Reply
Lauren Kelly
February 18, 2022 at 9:21 am
Definitely! Thank you!
Reply
2. Taylor
February 11, 2022 at 8:47 am
We made this for dinner last night and it was a huge hit! Love how healthy and delicious it is. The ginger adds amazing flavor and I love the crunch from the almonds and sweetness from the cranberries. So good!
Reply
Lauren Kelly
February 18, 2022 at 9:21 am
I am so happy you liked it!
Reply
3. Allyssa
February 11, 2022 at 8:02 am
Thank you so much for sharing this amazing recipe! Will surely have this again! It's really easy to make and it tasted so delicious! Highly recommended!
Reply
Lauren Kelly
February 18, 2022 at 9:22 am
So great to hear, thank you!
Reply
4. Rachel
January 14, 2022 at 1:01 pm
This was such a great quinoa bowl! I added shredded chicken to it like you mentioned in your notes and it was perfect! Absolutely hit the spot! Thank you for sharing!
Reply
Lauren Kelly
January 14, 2022 at 1:41 pm
So happy you liked it, Rachel!
Reply
5. Toni
January 14, 2022 at 12:50 pm
This recipe is absolutely delicious! Such a comforting combination of ingredients.
Reply
Lauren Kelly
January 14, 2022 at 1:42 pm
Thanks so much, Toni!
Reply
6. Kristyn
January 14, 2022 at 12:37 pm
Healthy, hearty, & tasty!! Love everything in this. The flavors & textures compliment each other so well!
Reply
Lauren Kelly
January 14, 2022 at 1:42 pm
Thanks Kristyn!
Reply
7. wilhelmina
March 02, 2021 at 11:15 am
This is so delicious, it's hard to believe that it's also so good for me! I am making a double batch next time so that my husband and I have lunches for a few days also!
Reply
8. Matt Taylor
March 02, 2021 at 10:35 am
I love sweet potatoes and brussels sprouts. They pair so well with the quinoa in this recipe. Such a healthy and yummy dish, and super easy to make too!
Reply
9. Julia
March 02, 2021 at 10:14 am
I loved this quinoa bowl, so many of my favourite ingredients combined in one. I used a little of feta on top and that was so delicious!
Reply
10. Yvonne
October 02, 2020 at 5:03 pm
Love this combination! I riffed off this recipe a bit: I roasted squash, scooped out some of the center, and then mounded a very similar quinoa combo inside of it (minus the sweet potatoes). Both beautiful and delicious!
Reply
11. Marilyn
May 28, 2016 at 1:40 pm
This looks and sounds DELICIOUS! I wonder if you could provide the nutrition information? I am following weight watchers and would like to calculate the smart points. Thank you!
Reply
12. Kim
April 01, 2016 at 9:57 pm
I made your delicious bowl last night for dinner, Lauren. I loved how easy it was. I noticed a slight error in that the amount of olive oil isn't listed. It just says 1 olive oil. I used a tablespoon and actually used coconut oil instead. My only other issue with the recipe is that the sweet potatoes didn't end up cooked enough. I think the next time I make this I will probably bake them in the oven for about 10 minutes prior to adding them to the skillet. I also added torn kale pieces to the mix.
Reply
lauren.kelly
April 01, 2016 at 10:23 pm
Hi Kim! Thank you for pointing that error out, I changed that. Every oven can vary so that's why cooking times may vary by several minutes too. The added kale sounds amazing, you are making me hungry! Thanks again!
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Primary Sidebar
Hi, I'm Lauren! I love creating easy, simple, healthy recipes for you! Many of them are low carb and gluten free, and all of the are delicious!.
More about me →
Popular
Whole Wheat Irish Soda Bread {Yeast Free, Lightened Up}
Instant Pot Chicken Drumsticks
Happy St. Patrick's Day Treats {Shamrock Pretzels}
Garlic Balsamic Crusted Pork Tenderloin
My Newest Cookbook!
Wheat-Free Cooking!
Subscribe to receive my latest recipes by email! 
You can unsubscribe at any time.
Email 
Name 
Footer
back to top
About
Privacy Policy
About
Newsletter
Sign Up! for emails and updates
Contact
Contact
Services
Lauren Kelly Nutrition is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking toAmazon.com and affiliated sites._
Copyright © 2021 Lauren Kelly Nutrition
Enter your name and email and get the weekly newsletter... it's FREE!
LAUREN KELLY NUTRITION
Your information will never be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
