https://www.themediterraneandish.com/lebanese-rice-hashweh-recipe/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Recipes
Mediterranean Diet
Mediterranean Diet Recipes
What is the Mediterranean Diet and How to Follow It
Mediterranean Diet Shopping List
Mediterranean Diet Food List: 5 Foods You Need
5 Basics of The Mediterranean Lifestyle
Must-Have Mediterranean Spices
Favorite Mediterranean Diet Cookbooks (part 1)
How to Stock your Pantry
Shop
About
Contact
menu icon
search icon
search...
Recipes
Shop
Mediterranean Diet
About
Contact
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
Home / Sides and Small Plates / Loaded Lebanese Rice: Hashweh (video)
Loaded Lebanese Rice: Hashweh (video)
Published: Oct 9, 2017 · Modified: Oct 10, 2020 by Suzy · 167 Comments
To recipe Print
If you thought rice is a benign, boring side dish, this Hashweh Lebanese Rice will change your mind! Adorned with meat, toasted nuts and raisins. And loaded with flavors from aromatics and warm Middle Eastern Spices. Hashweh makes a glorious holiday side dish, but it can be the star dish any day of the week.
See serving suggestions, and be sure to view the video tutorial for how to make hashweh.
What is Hashweh?
In our household, this Lebanese rice has been lovingly named, "dirty rice." It is more properly known throughout the Middle East as _hashweh,_ which literally means stuffing or stuffed.
Hashweh is a one-pot rice dish, loaded with ground or minced beef (or lamb), lots of toasted nuts and dried fruit like raisins. It is anything but bland. Expect layers of flavor in each bite, thanks to aromatics and warm Middle Eastern spices like cinnamon and allspice.
So as you can see, this loaded Lebanese rice is anything but an average “stuffing” to be tucked in or added as a side. Sure, it can be that. And it's a must holiday side dish for me (think Thanksgiving and Christmas.)
But it can easily be the main star on any given night, don't you agree?
How to Make Hashweh
be sure to also watch the video tutorial below)
Hashweh is really simple to make. It takes only a few simple steps and a couple of pro tips:
1- A very important first step is to rinse and soak the rice in water for a few minutes. This helps get rid of excess starch so the rice is not sticky. It also allows the rice to cook more quickly and evenly (you end up using less water in cooking than you see in typical rice dishes.)
2- The cooking process for hashweh begin with browning the meat (you can use ground beef or lamb), along with aromatics and warm spices. We are layering flavors from the very start!
3- Once the meat is fully cooked, we add our drained rice right on top (all in one pot). We also make sure to add a little more of the same spices to carry the flavors through. Water and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil are the last couple ingredients to add. Bring to a boil until the water reduces by a lot. Then cover and cook.
4- Important tip, once the hashweh rice is fully cooked through, the best thing you can do to it is to leave it covered and undisturbed for a few minutes before uncovering it. This is important for texture and flavor.
5- To serve the hashweh rice, simply turn it onto a plate (watch my video below to see how I do it), then add all the beautifully toasted nuts and raisins, maybe a little parsley for garnish. Glorious!
What to serve with Hashweh Lebanese Rice?
Sure, this gorgeous Lebanese rice makes a great side dish. And I do often serve it as a gluten-free stuffing alternative for Thanksgiving! But, I have no shame serving it as a main course with a couple of yummy sides.
I like to turn hashweh Lebanese rice into dinner bowls with a side salad like this chickpea salad or fattoush and a little creamy roasted garlic hummus! The kind of dinner bowl equal in awesomeness to these Greek Keftedes dinner bowls or this Lebanese Fatteh! 
Watch the Video Below for How to Make Hashweh Lebanese Rice:
You may also like
Tahdig Persian Rice
Golden Rice Pilaf with Peas and Carrots
Lebanese rice with vermicelli 
Italian Rice Casserole
See moreMediterranean Recipes. JOIN MY FREEE-MAIL LIST.
Print
clock clock iconcutlery cutlery iconflag flag iconfolder folder iconinstagram instagram iconpinterest pinterest iconfacebook facebook iconprint print iconsquares squares iconheart heart iconheart solid heart solid icon
Loaded Lebanese Rice: Hashweh
4.9 from 28 reviews
Author: The Mediterranean Dish
Total Time: 50 minutes
Yield: Serves 6 1x
Print Recipe
Pin Recipe
Description
This Lebanese rice pilaf called hashweh is not your ordinary rice. Loaded with lean ground beef, toasted nuts, raisins. Seasoned to perfection! See step-by-step photos below the recipe
Ingredients
Scale 1x2x3x
1 ½ cups medium grain rice
Olive oil
1 small red onion, finely chopped
1 lb lean ground beef or lean ground lamb
1 ¾ tsp ground allspice, divided
½ tsp minced garlic
¾ tsp ground cloves, divided
¾ tsp ground cinnamon, divided
salt and pepper
½ cup fresh parsley leaves, roughly chopped
⅓ to ½ cup pine nuts, toasted
⅓ to ½ cup slivered almonds, toasted
½ cup dark raisins
Instructions
1. Soak the rice in cold water for 15 minutes or until you are easily able to break one grain of rice between your thumb and index fingers. When ready, drain well.
2. Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a heavy cooking pot. Add chopped red onions, cook on medium-high heat briefly, then add the ground beef. Season the meat mixture with 1 ¼ teaspoon allspice, minced garlic, ½ teaspoon ground cloves, ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon, salt and pepper. Toss together to combine. Cook until the meat is fully browned (8-10 minutes). Drain.
3. Top the meat with rice. Season the rice with a little salt and the remainder of the allspice, ground cloves and cinnamon. Add 2 ½ cups of water and 1 tablespoon of olive oil to cover the rice.
4. Turn heat to high and bring the liquid to a rolling boil. Let boil until the liquid has significantly reduced (see picture below).
5. Now turn heat to low and cover; let cook for 20 minutes or until moisture has completely been absorbed and the rice is no longer hard nor sticky. Remove from heat and set aside for 10 minutes.
6. Uncover the rice pot and place a large round serving platter on the opening of the rice pot. Carefully flip the pot contents onto the platter so that the meat layer now tops the rice.
7. Garnish with parsley, toasted pine nuts, almonds and raisins. Enjoy.
Notes
Pro Tips: Be sure to watch the video tutorial above this recipe. A couple of important of tips to remember: 1) before you do anything, make sure to rinse the rice well and let it soak for a few minutes.This will ensure the rice is not sticky and that it will cook quickly and evenly. 2) When the hashweh is ready, leave it covered and undisturbed for a few minutes before serving. Again, this ensures texture but also flavor.
Recommended for this Recipe All-natural ground allspice and Private Reserve Greek extra virgin olive oil (from organically grown and processed Koroeniki olives)
SAVE! Try our Ultimate Mediterranean Spice Bundle, or create your own 6-pack or 3-pack of fresh, all-natural and organic spices!
Prep Time: 20 mins
Cook Time: 30 mins
Category: Side dish/entree
Cuisine: Lebanese
Keywords: Hashweh, Hashweh Rice, Lebanese Rice Recipe, Rice Pilaf
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @themediterraneandish on Instagram and hashtag it themediterraneandish
More Recipes to Try
Egyptian Koshari: Rice and Lentils 
Lebanese Rice with Vermicelli 
Spanish Chicken and Rice 
Mediterranean Couscous Salad
Cilantro Lime Chicken 
Greek Meatballs: Keftedes 
This post was originally published in 2014 and has been updated for readers benefit.
Easy Mediterranean Shrimp Pizza on Flatbread
Roasted Pear and Sweet Potato Gratin »
Welcome!
I so love having you here! Please join me and our growing community! You can find me daily here...
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Reader Interactions
Please review Nutrition Disclosure. This post may include affiliate links
Comments
1. angela says
November 21, 2021 at 6:23 pm
would chickpeas or mushrooms be a good meat substitute for this recipe?
Reply
Suzy says
November 22, 2021 at 11:52 am
Hi, Angela. Although I haven't tried it personally, I think mushrooms could make a good substitute for the meat here. If you give it a try, I'd love to hear what you thought!
Reply
2. Cecilia says
November 15, 2021 at 9:53 am
I wondered if I can make this mushrooms and would if have the same spices? Ty!!
Reply
Suzy says
November 16, 2021 at 12:20 pm
Hi, Cecilia. Are you referring to replacing something in the recipe with mushrooms, or simply adding mushrooms with everything else?
Reply
3. Cass Cheeseman says
October 04, 2021 at 7:17 am
Such a delicious and easy to follow recipe. My whole family loves this! Thank you for introducing us to easy to follow tasty Lebanese food! Yum!
Reply
Suzy says
October 04, 2021 at 10:23 am
My pleasure, Cass! So glad you enjoyed the recipe!
Reply
4. Sherri says
October 03, 2021 at 1:46 pm
Do you know if this could be veganized successfully if I used meatless crumbles instead of actual meat or should I just use one of your meatless rice recipes?
Reply
Suzy says
October 04, 2021 at 1:28 pm
Hi, Sherri. Hard to say. I'm not sure how meatless crumbles would hold up during the boiling process. I don't have very much experience with that product.
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe rating _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_ _★_ _☆_
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Search for a recipe
Hi! Welcome to The Mediterranean Dish, your 1 resource for Mediterranean recipes & lifestyle. I'm Suzy. I was born and raised in the cosmopolitan Mediterranean city of Port Said, Egypt, a "boat ride" away from places like Italy, Greece, Turkey, Lebanon, Palestine and Israel. Today, influenced by my mother's tasty kitchen, and my extensive travels, I share easy wholesome recipes with big Mediterranean flavors. Welcome to my table. Read More about Suzy
Holiday Favorites!
Baked Cranberry Chicken Recipe
How to Make Baked Brie with Jam and Nuts
Easy Mediterranean Orange and Pomegranate Salad Recipe
Easy Shrimp Scampi Recipe
Roast Rack of Lamb Recipe with Garlic and Herb Crust
Melomakarona Greek Cookies
Popular Recipes
Easy Authentic Falafel Recipe: Step-by-Step
How to Make Baklava
Spanakopita Recipe (Greek Spinach Pie)
Easy Homemade Chicken Shawarma
Easy Hummus Recipe (Authentic and Homemade)
Homemade Harissa Recipe (Video)
Footer
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Copyright © 2021 The Mediterranean Dish. An Elite CafeMedia Food Publisher. 
Privacy policy
SHOP NOW
Cyber Monday Sale - Entire Store!
Are you ready to follow the World's 1 Diet?
Tell me more!
No Thank you
E-cookbook of 20 Mediterranean diet recipes
Mediterranean diet shopping list
Our weekly meal plans
We want to help you on your new journey!
When you join our e-mail list, you will get for FREE:
By subscribing, you agree to receive periodic emails from The Mediterranean Dish
JOIN NOW for FREE
Now go check your email to confirm your subscription and to download your
free e-cookbook.
Also be sure to check your spam/promotions folder if you don't immediately see the email.
THANK YOU!!
