https://www.whiskaffair.com/pudina-laccha-paratha-mint-paratha/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Meal Type
Salads
Soups
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Subscribe
Search
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
Search
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Salads
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Home » Recipes » Indian » Indian Breads » Pudina Paratha (Mint Paratha)
Published: Mar 29, 2019 | Last Updated On: Sep 16, 2020 by Neha Mathur
Pudina Paratha (Mint Paratha)
1864 shares
Jump to Recipe
Pudina Paratha or Mint Paratha as the name suggests is made using dry mint powder, whole wheat flour and has many layers in it. This Indian bread goes very well with Indian curries. Here is how to make it.
About This Recipe
Benefits of Mint
Pro Tips by Neha
Can you use fresh Mint to make this Paratha?
Can you freeze this paratha?
Serving Suggestions
How to make it Vegan?
Step by Step Recipe
Recipe Card
Parathas or say flatbreads are very popular in the northern regions of India.
As Wikipedia mentions, Paratha is like a combination of ‘Parat’ and ‘Atta’ which signifies various layers of the dough that we cook to make this flatbread.
When it comes to this North Indian dish, there are various types of Parathas that can be made, from simple plain paratha to spice flavoured laccha parathas to stuffed parathas, options are many to choose from!
I always save up my Stuffed Paratha recipes for breakfast or dinner, but then there are plain paratha and spiced parathas that go really well with Dal and Curries.
And one such Paratha is, PUDINA PARATHA.
I also like to include them in my festive meals.
Pudina Paratha as the name suggests is made using whole wheat flour which is later flavored with mint powder or kasuri methi powder.
The flavor of pudina or say mint powder is so refreshing that you would regret for not using dried mint powder in your paratha recipes before.
Here are some more Paratha recipes, that tastes delicious with Curries and Dal – Tawa Paratha, Ajwain Paratha, Masala Paratha and Laccha Paratha.
About This Recipe
Pudina Paratha is a simple Indian flatbread where the dough is made with whole wheat flour and then it is flavoured with kasuri methi powder or mint powder. 
Also, this is a Lachha Paratha which means that it has various crispy layers of cooked flour which taste delicious with rich Indian curry.
You can make a simple paratha too without layering it like a lachha paratha if you wish.
If you don’t find mint easily in your area, then you can may be buy it in bulk from the vegetable market, make them dry and use its powder just like me.
You can also use this method in case, you have extra mint leaves, that might go bad before you use them.
Benefits of Mint
Talking about the nutrients, some of the benefits of including mint leaves in your diet are that mint helps in digestion, it cures nausea and even headache.
Moreover, mint even prevents cough.
It also helps in weight loss and combats memory loss. 
It is very refreshing and is thus good to consume in Summer.
Pro Tips by Neha
In the restaurants, this paratha is made using only All Purpose Flour or Maida.
But since I was making it at home, I added some wheat flour to it to.
It’s totally up to you to use the flour of your choice. Using only maida will make it even more crunchier.
And using some wheat flour in it will make it khasta.
Knead the dough until smooth and soft and make sure to let it rest.
This will make sure that maida becomes pliable and it will be easier to roll the paratha.
Instead of making a lachcha paratha, you can also make a simple triangular pudina paratha.
Transfer the paratha on the griddle only when it is nicely hot.
You can add chaat masala, some red chilli powder etc in the dried mint to make your parathas even more tastier, tangier and spicier.
Can you use fresh Mint to make this Paratha?
I prefer to use mint powder in this recipe, but you can use finely chopped fresh mint in place of dry powder.
If using fresh mint, chop it very finely and knead it with the dough.
You can use ½ cup of fresh mint per 2 cups of flour.
Can you freeze this paratha?
These parathas can be easily rolled and frozen until you are ready to use them.
Just roll the paratha as mentioned. Keep a sheet of parchment in between the parathas and freeze in freezer safe bag for up to 3 months.
When ready to use, just take out one paratha, put it on the hot griddle and fry as mentioned below.
You don’t have to thaw the paratha before frying.
Serving Suggestions
You can serve this paratha with any Indian curry.
It goes well with both Vegetarian and Non Vegetarian Curries and all the Raitas.
Even Mango Pickle and Chilli Pickle goes well with this paratha.
How to make it Vegan?
To make vegan Pudina Paratha, replace ghee with vegetable oil for layering the paratha.
You might also like
Palak Puri
Litti Chokha
Namak Pare
Methi Thepla
Palak Paneer Paratha
Step by Step Recipe
Mix the ingredients to make the filling in a bowl and keep aside.
Mix all purpose flour, wheat flour, sugar, salt and oil in a bowl.
Make a medium soft dough using water. Knead the dough for 3-4 minutes until it becomes soft and smooth.
Cover and keep the dough for 20 minutes. Knead again for 2-3 minutes. Divide the dough into 8-10 pieces. Make small balls from each piece
Dust the dough and roll it as thin as possible. Don’t worry about tearing it while rolling.
Apply ghee generously over the rolled dough.
Sprinkle little dry flour on top.
Sprinkle some of the mint mixture on top.
Fold the rolled dough like we roll a fan or like a pleat.
Make a pinwheel with the pleated dough.
Dust and roll the paratha to make a 6 inch disc.
Heat a griddle. Keep the paratha on the hot griddle.
Cook till brown spots appear.
Turn the paratha on the other side. Apply ghee on both the sides and cook till brown spots darken.
Apply little pressure while cooking using back of a ladle. Remove the paratha from the griddle.
Press from both the sides to open the layers. Serve hot with any curry based dish.
Here is how to make Dry Mint Powder
Recipe Card
Loved this recipe?Click here to leave a review and give us a five star rating ★★★★★
Pudina Paratha Recipe
Pudina Paratha as the name suggests is made using dried mint powder and whole wheat flour and has many layers in it.
5 from 1 vote
Print Pin Rate
Course: Bread
Cuisine: Indian
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 30 minutes
Total Time: 40 minutes
Servings: 4 people
Calories: 177kcal
Author: Neha Mathur
Ingredients 
1x2x3x
2 and ½ cup All Purpose Flour
1 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1 tablespoon Sugar
1 teaspoon Salt
2 tablespoon Vegetable Oil
For the filling
3 tablespoon Dry Mint Powder
½ teaspoon Salt
1 teaspoon Carom Seeds
Ghee (For applying in the layers and frying the paratha.)
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
Mix the ingredients to make the filling in a bowl and keep aside.
Mix all purpose flour, whole wheat flour, sugar, salt and oil in a bowl.
Make a medium soft dough using water.
Knead the dough for 3-4 minutes until it becomes soft and smooth.
Cover and keep the dough for 20 minutes.
Knead again for 2-3 minutes.
Divide the dough into 8-10 pieces.
Make small balls from each piece.
Dust the dough and roll it as thin as possible.
Don’t worry about tearing it while rolling.
Apply ghee generously over the rolled dough.
Sprinkle little dry flour on top.
Sprinkle some of the mint mixture on top.
Fold the rolled dough like we roll a fan or like a pleat.
Make a pinwheel with the pleated dough.
Dust and roll the paratha to make a 6 inch disc.
Heat a griddle.
Keep the paratha on the hot griddle.
Cook till brown spots appear.
Turn the paratha on the other side.
Apply ghee on both the sides and cook till brown spots darken.
Apply little pressure while cooking using back of a ladle.
Remove the paratha from the griddle.
Press from both the sides to open the layers
Serve hot with any curry based dish.
Notes
In the restaurants, this paratha is made using only All Purpose Flour or Maida. But since I was making it at home, I added some wheat flour to it to. It’s totally up to you to use the flour of your choice. Using only maida will make it even more crunchier. And using some wheat flour in it will make it khasta.
Knead the dough until smooth and soft and make sure to let it rest. This will make sure that maida becomes pliable and it will be easier to roll the paratha.
Instead of making a lachcha paratha, you can also make a simple triangular pudina paratha.
Transfer the paratha on the griddle only when it is nicely hot.
You can add chaat masala, some red chilli powder etc in the dried mint to make your parathas even more tastier, tangier and spicier.
Nutrition
Calories: 177kcal | Carbohydrates: 25g | Protein: 4g | Fat: 7g | Saturated Fat: 5g | Sodium: 872mg | Potassium: 108mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 3g | Calcium: 10mg | Iron: 1.1mg
Pin this recipe for later use!I LOVE to see your creations so pin and mention @WhiskAffair!
Sign up for regular updates?I would love to have you as part of my journey. Click to sign up!
UP Style Matar Ka Nimona (Fresh Peas Curry)
Black Bean and Corn Salsa »
Reader Interactions
Did you make this recipe? Let me know! Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Sign me up for the newsletter!
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Hey! Nice to meet you
Hi! I'm Neha, Blogger & Recipe Expert behind Whisk Affair. I've nurtured Whisk Affair since 2012 by trying & testing every recipe published. Be sure that it will turn out good each time! Read More about me…
Stay Connected
Fall Recipes
Butternut Squash Sweet Potato Soup
Oven Roasted Sweet Potato Wedges
Thai Sweet Potato Curry
Pumpkin Chia Seed Pudding
Pumpkin Spice Chai Tea
Pumpkin Spice Hot Chocolate
Diwali Recipes
Double Ka Meetha
Shankarpali
Shakkarpara
Balushahi
Kalakand Wontons
Tater Tots Chaat
Most Popular Recipes
How to make Sour Cream
Lemon Garlic Baked Tilapia
Dal Tadka
Scrambled Egg Whites
Rajma Masala
Creamy Garlic Parmesan Sauce
Footer
back to top
About
About Neha
Stay Connected
Sign up! for emails and updates
Contact Me
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility Policy
Copyright © 2020 WhiskAffair Food LLP
