Instructions
For the Tofu (prep ahead if desired):
Since tofu is packaged in water, we need press the water out of it to make room for flavor. To press tofu, use a tea towel and place it under and on top of the tofu. Set it on a plate. Place something heavy on top, like a cutting board, another plate or a not-so-full box of wine to press the water out. We don't want it too heavy or it will squash the tofu. Move the tea towel a few times to a dryer area of the towel so it can absorb more water. Press for about 20-30 minutes, up to an hour if you have time.
Preheat the oven to 425F (218C). Line a sheet pan with silpat or parchment paper. Cut the tofu into 1/2" (1.27cm) cubes - 32 pieces. Arrange the tofu on the sheet pan in one layer. Bake for 20-22 minutes. The tofu should be slightly golden yet still soft. 
Transfer the warm tofu to a medium mixing bowl and pour the BBQ sauce over it then give it a good stir. Cover and let marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to eight hours. Set aside. 
For the Vegetables:
If using bamboo skewers, soak them in water while you prepare the veggies. Cut the veggies into bite size pieces and place in a large mixing bowl. Drizzle the olive oil over the veggies then season with salt and pepper. Toss the veggies together so that they're coated in oil. 
Preheat the grill to between 400-450F (204-232C). Skewer the veggies and tofu while reserving the leftover BBQ sauce. Place the kebabs on the grill and grill for about 15-20 minutes total (15 = more tender crisp / 20 = softer, throughly cooked), slathering with more BBQ sauce and making 1/4 turns every four to five minutes so that the veggies and tofu are equally cooked on all sides. Charring is good! 
Serve as soon as they come off they grill. They tend to cool quickly. If needed, keep the kebabs warm for a few minutes after fully cooked still on the grill but with the grill turned off. 
For leftovers, store in the refrigerator for up to three days in a covered container. This recipe does not freeze well. 