https://www.whiskaffair.com/baingan-bharta-recipe/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Meal Type
Salads
Soups
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Subscribe
Search
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
Search
Home
Recipe Index
Indian Recipes
Salads
Appetizers
Main Course
Desserts
Work with Me
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Home » Recipes » Dal & Curries » Veg Curries » Baingan Bharta
Published: Nov 20, 2020 | Last Updated On: Nov 20, 2020 by Neha Mathur
Baingan Bharta
210 shares
Jump to Recipe
This smoky baingan bharta is a delicious _Indian-style eggplant mash_ that is great to serve with naan or paratha. It’s vegan, gluten-free, and comes together in _30 minutes_.
If you are looking for more baingan recipes, here are some of them that you can make for everyday meals – Baingan Methi, Aloo Baingan, Hyderabadi Bagara Baingan, Kashmiri Dahi Baingan, Kalonji Baingan, and Masaledar Bharwa Baingan. 
About This Recipe
Ingredients
How to make Baingan Bharta?
Frequently Asked Questions
Pro Tips By Neha
Storage Suggestions
Serving Suggestions
You might also like
Recipe Card
About This Recipe
Baingan bharta or eggplant bharta is an _India style smoky roasted eggplant mash_. The whole eggplant is roasted over direct flame until it is soft and smoky and then the pulp is cooked with mild spices.
Baingan ka bharta is made in _many different ways_ in different regions. In Maharashtra, it is called vangyache bharit, chokha in Bihar, and kathirikai gothsu in Tamil Nadu. The recipe I am sharing today is a Punjabi style baingan bharta which is now popular not only in Indian but all around the world.
Smoky flavor, spicy masala, _and no hint of slimness anywhere_ , baingan bharta is vegan and gluten-free too. 
During winter, I prepare this bharta recipe as often as I can, _because the seasonal eggplants are way more nutritious than the ones available during other seasons of the year._
The best way to roast the eggplant is on _direct flame_. You can either do it on a stovetop or on a BBQ grill. If these are not available, then you can roast them in an oven or air fryer too. 
So, if you also have not tried it yet, _it’s time to give this delicious sabzi a try and it tastes amazing with hot tawa parathas._
This Baingan Bharta is,
Vegan
Gluten-Free
Spicy + Smoky
Delicious
Easy to make
Perfect for weekday meals
Perfect to pack in Lunch Box
Ingredients
Baingan_ – Getting the right eggplant is very important. Choose the ones with shiny, firm, and glossy skin. There shouldn’t be any marks or dents on it. Choose the eggplant with a dot at the bottom and not a line. The one with a dot is the male fruit with fewer seeds.
Oil_ – I personally like to prepare in mustard oil, as it adds a beautiful flavor and is also considered very healthy. 
Green Chilies_ – You can adjust the amount of green chilies as per your taste and spice level. I like it spicy and thus I add more chilies.
Spice Powders_ – To enhance the taste, even more, we will add in some basic everyday spice powders such as coriander powder, turmeric powder, red chili powder, garam masala powder, __ and dry mango powder.
Peas_ – This is optional, but I like the bite green peas add in the soft bharta. If you do not have fresh peas, you can use frozen green peas too. Just add the frozen green peas to a bowl of warm water for 5 minutes, discard the water and they will be ready to use.
If using fresh peas, then boil them in water until tender before adding to the bharta.
Fresh Coriander_ – Finally, add some more taste and a refreshing flavor by garnishing it with finely chopped coriander leaves. 
Others_ – We will also need some basic ingredients such as garlic, onion, ginger, tomato, and salt, that combined will enhance the taste of this bharta.
How to make Baingan Bharta?
To start making the bharta, first, roast the eggplant. Wash it and wipe it with a kitchen towel. Make 8-10 slits in it using a paring knife all over.
Insert one whole peeled garlic clove in each slit. Roasting the garlic cloves along with the eggplant gives a very delicious flavor to this bharta. So do not skip this step.
Keep the eggplant on the direct flame over a wire rack and roast from all the sides on medium heat till the skin is blackened and it is soft from inside. Keep rotating it every 2-3 minutes while roasting. It will take 10-12 minutes to roast it properly. To check if it is roasted well, insert a knife in it. The knife should go inside the pulp easily. 
Note – Roasting the eggplant over direct heat gives it a very nice smoky flavor. So I highly recommend roasting it over direct flame. But you can also roast it in an oven, air fryer, or BBQ grill or even steam it in a pressure cooker.
Remove the roasted eggplant from heat and let cool for 20 minutes. Remove the burnt skin by peeling it using your fingers. Chop off the top. Wash the peeled eggplant to remove any trace of charred skin. Cut it into half and remove the seeds. Mash the pulp using your fingers, fork, or a potato masher and keep it aside.
Heat 4 tablespoon mustard oil in a pan. A cast iron pan is the best to make this dish.
Note – If mustard oil is not available, you can cook the bharta in any oil.
Add 1 cup chopped onion, and 2 teaspoon chopped green chilies and fry on medium heat till translucent.
Add 2 teaspoon grated ginger and cook for another minute.
Now add 1 cup chopped tomatoes and cook for 3-4 minutes until mushy. Keep stirring at regular intervals.
Add 2 teaspoon coriander powder, 1 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1 teaspoon Kashmiri red chili powder, ½ teaspoon garam masala powder, 1 teaspoon dry mango powder, and salt to taste along with ½ cup of water and fry for a minute.
Add ¼ cup green peas and eggplant mash and mix well. Cook on high heat for a minute or two. Keep mashing with the back of the ladle.
Note – If using frozen pea, wash and drain them before adding them to the pan. If using fresh peas, cook them in water until tender, drain and add to the pan.
Garnish with 2 tablespoon chopped coriander and serve hot.
Frequently Asked Questions
How to roast eggplant in oven for baingan bharta?
The best way to roast the eggplant is over open fire since it gives that smoky flavor to it but if the open fire is not available easily, then you can roast it in an oven as well. 
To roast eggplant in an oven, preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Make slits and insert the garlic cloves as mentioned in the recipe below. Brush it with oil and put it on a baking tray. Broil for 15-20 minutes until charred and then flip and broil again for 10-12 minutes. 
You can roast it in an air fryer Too. Cut in half and air fry at 400 degrees F for 20 minutes.
How to make it without roasting eggplant?
To make baingan bharta without roasting, wash the baingan and peel it. Cut it into cubes. Pressure cook with ½ cup water until it is softened. Then use it in place of roasted baingan.
How to cook baingan in a pan?
Add the baingan slices in a pan. Cover it with water and cook till they are soft. Once done, let them cool down and mash to use in the bharta. Cooking the baingan in the pan will not give you the smoky flavor. 
Pro Tips By Neha
Use _plump large sized eggplant_ to make baingan bharta. Make sure they are the variety with fewer seeds.
Discard the _large seeds_ after roasting the eggplant. Also check for worms inside the pulp.
You can also _boil_ the eggplant to make the bharta but trust me, the taste will be only mediocre.
To _check if eggplant is cooked_ from inside, insert a knife in it. If the knife passes through easily, it means it is done.
Mustard oil_ gives a lovely pungent flavor to this dish, however, you can cook it in any other oil too.
Adding _peas_ in your bharta is totally optional _._ You can always skip adding them.
You can make a mix of potato and eggplant bharta too. This baingan aloo bharta tastes equally delicious. Roast the potatoes along with baingan to make this bharta.
Roasting a few garlic along with eggplant gives it a nice depth of flavor. I make a few slits in the eggplant and insert garlic cloves in these slits. 
You can add fresh chopped _methi or even Kasuri methi_ in the recipe if you wish to _._
You can also add cooked _mutton mince_ in this bharta and make baingan mutton bharta. Add more spices as mentioned below if using mutton as well.
Storage Suggestions
Baingan Ka Bharta will last in the fridge for _2 to 3 days_ when stored in an airtight container. Reheat it in a pan or microwave until nice and warm before serving.
Baingan Bharta can be easily frozen too. Just transfer it to a freezer-safe container and freeze for _3 months_ for later use. When ready to use, thaw it over the counter for 2-3 hours and then microwave until warm.
Serving Suggestions
You can serve this baingan bharta with Indian bread such as roti, tawa paratha, laccha paratha, or missi roti. You can also serve it as a side with the rice dal combination. 
I will tell you a creative and delicious way to use leftover bharta. Stuff it in mini tart shells and serve as an appetizer.
You might also like
Hyderabadi Bagara Baingan
Dal Makhani
Kurkuri Bhindi
Bihari Litti Chokha
Recipe Card
Loved this recipe?Click here to leave a review and give us a five star rating ★★★★★
Baingan Bharta Recipe
This smoky Baingan Bharta is a delicious _Indian-style eggplant mash_ that is great to serve with naan or paratha. It's vegan, gluten-free, and comes together in _30 minutes_.
5 from 5 votes
Print Pin Rate
Course: Main Course
Cuisine: Indian
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 20 minutes
Total Time: 30 minutes
Servings: 4 people
Calories: 202kcal
Author: Neha Mathur
Ingredients 
1x2x3x
1 large whole eggplant
8-10 whole peeled garlic cloves
4 tablespoon mustard oil
1 cup chopped onion
2 teaspoon chopped green chili
2 teaspoon grated ginger
1 cup chopped tomato
2 teaspoon coriander powder
1 teaspoon turmeric powder
1 teaspoon Kashmiri red chili powder
½ teaspoon garam masala powder
1 teaspoon dry mango powder
salt to taste
¼ cup green peas (softened)
2 tablespoon chopped coriander
US Customary or Metric
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
To start making baingan bharta, first, roast the eggplant. Wash it and wipe it with a kitchen towel. Make 8-10 slits in it using a paring knife all over.
Insert one whole peeled garlic clove in each slit. Roasting the garlic cloves along with the eggplant gives a very delicious flavor to this bharta. So do not skip this step.
Keep the eggplant on the direct flame and roast from all the sides on medium heat till the skin is blackened and it is soft from inside. Keep rotating it every 2-3 minutes while roasting. It will take 10-12 minutes to roast it properly. To check if it is roasted well, insert a knife in it. The knife should go inside the pulp easily.
Note – Roasting the eggplant over direct heat gives it a very nice smoky flavor. So I highly recommend roasting it over direct flame. But you can also roast it in an oven, air fryer, or BBQ grill or even steam it in a pressure cooker.
Remove the roasted eggplant from heat and let cool for 20 minutes. Remove the burnt skin by peeling it using your fingers. Chop off the top. Wash the peeled eggplant to remove any trace of charred skin. Cut it into half and remove the seeds. Mash the pulp using your fingers, fork, or a potato masher and keep it aside.
Heat 4 tablespoon mustard oil in a pan. A cast iron pan is the best to make this dish.
Note – If mustard oil is not available, you can cook the bharta in any oil.
Add 1 cup chopped onion, and 2 teaspoon chopped green chilies and fry on medium heat till translucent.
Add 2 teaspoon grated ginger and cook for another minute.
Now add 1 cup chopped tomatoes and cook for 3-4 minutes until mushy. Keep stirring at regular intervals.
Add 2 teaspoon coriander powder, 1 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1 teaspoon Kashmiri red chili powder, ½ teaspoon garam masala powder, 1 teaspoon dry mango powder, and salt to taste along with ½ cup of water and fry for a minute.
Add ¼ cup green peas and eggplant mash and mix well. Cook on high heat for a minute or two. Keep mashing with the back of the ladle.
Note – If using frozen pea, wash and drain them before adding them to the pan. If using fresh peas, cook them in water until tender, drain and add to the pan.
Garnish with 2 tablespoon chopped coriander and serve hot.
Notes
Use _plump large sized eggplant_ to make Baingan Bharta. Make sure they are the variety with fewer seeds.
Roasting the eggplant over _direct flame_ gives the best flavor to this dish. However, if you do not have access to direct flame, you can roast it in an oven or air fryer too.
Discard the _large seeds_ after roasting the eggplant. Also, check for worms inside the pulp.
You can also _boil_ the eggplant to make the bharta but trust me, the taste will be only mediocre.
To _check if eggplant is cooked_ from inside, insert a knife in it. If the knife passes through easily, it means it is done.
Mustard oil_ gives a lovely pungent flavor to this dish, however, you can cook it in any other oil too.
Adding _peas_ in your baingan bharta is totally optional _._ You can always skip adding them.
You can make a mix of potato and eggplant bharta too. This baingan aloo bharta tastes equally delicious. Roast the potatoes along with baingan to make this bharta.
Roasting a few garlic along with eggplant gives it a nice depth of flavor. I make a few slits in the eggplant and insert garlic cloves in these slits. This way, they get roasted along with the eggplant.
You can add fresh chopped _methi or even Kasuri methi_ in the recipe if you wish to _._
You can also add cooked _mutton mince_ in this bharta and make baingan mutton bharta. Add more spices as mentioned below if using mutton as well.
Nutrition
Calories: 202kcal | Carbohydrates: 17g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 14g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 36mg | Potassium: 495mg | Fiber: 5g | Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 635IU | Vitamin C: 18.4mg | Calcium: 38mg | Iron: 1.2mg
Pin this recipe for later use!I LOVE to see your creations so pin and mention @WhiskAffair!
Sign up for regular updates?I would love to have you as part of my journey. Click to sign up!
Balsamic Vinaigrette
Blue Cheese Salad Dressing »
Primary Sidebar
Hey! Nice to meet you
Hi! I'm Neha, Blogger & Recipe Expert behind Whisk Affair. I've nurtured Whisk Affair since 2012 by trying & testing every recipe published. Be sure that it will turn out good each time! Read More about me…
Stay Connected
Fall Recipes
Butternut Squash Sweet Potato Soup
Oven Roasted Sweet Potato Wedges
Thai Sweet Potato Curry
Pumpkin Chia Seed Pudding
Pumpkin Spice Chai Tea
Pumpkin Spice Hot Chocolate
Diwali Recipes
Double Ka Meetha
Shankarpali
Shakkarpara
Balushahi
Kalakand Wontons
Tater Tots Chaat
Most Popular Recipes
How to make Sour Cream
Lemon Garlic Baked Tilapia
Dal Tadka
Scrambled Egg Whites
Rajma Masala
Creamy Garlic Parmesan Sauce
Footer
back to top
About
About Neha
Stay Connected
Sign up! for emails and updates
Contact Me
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility Policy
Copyright © 2020 WhiskAffair Food LLP
