https://platedcravings.com/german-gingerbread-elisenlebkuchen/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
German Food
About
Contact
How to Subscribe
Nav Social Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
search...
menu icon
search icon
search...
Recipe Index
Air Fryer
Contact
About
Subscribe
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Home > Cookies, Brownies & Bars > German Lebkuchen Recipe
German Lebkuchen Recipe
Jump to Recipe · By: Julia Foerster · Posted: 11/20/18 · Updated: 11/20/18
This traditional Lebkuchen recipe is easy to make from scratch and loaded with nuts, candied fruit, and flavorful spices. Elisen Lebkuchen (German Gingerbread) are one of the most famous German Christmas cookies with their moist and soft interior and make a great edible gift during the Holiday season!_
There are many different varieties of German Christmas Cookies like Vanillekipferl, Nut Corners, and Cinnamon Stars but these traditional Nuernberger Elisen Lebkuchen are a Christmas favorite!
Lebkuchen are the most famous German Christmas Cookies! German Gingerbread is soft and moist, unlike the hard gingerbread that is known in North America. It is made with nuts and a special spice mixture called Lebkuchen spice that is similar to Pumpkin Pie Spice and gives them their unique flavor. The best thing about these treats is that can be made weeks before Christmas because they keep fresh and moist for a long time stored in a cookie tin in a dry and cool place!
What are Lebkuchen?
Lebkuchen are traditional German Christmas cookies that somewhat resemble gingerbread. There are different varieties of Lebkuchen, Oblaten Lebkuchen and Elisen Lebkuchen, which are made with different amounts of nuts but the main ingredients are always a mixture of nuts, candied orange and lemon peel, eggs, sugar or honey, and sometimes marzipan. What makes the famous Elisen Lebkuchen so special is that they contain no flour!
These are my favorite Christmas cookies! A few years ago I started to make them myself after finding out how easy it is. This recipe makes a big batch of Lebkuchen, enough to share with friends and family.
Tips on how to make the best German Gingerbread Cookies
Instead of buying ground almonds and hazelnuts, use whole nuts and process them in a food processor until they resemble coarse crumbs. In my experience, this makes the best Lebkuchen because the nuts taste fresher and are moister.
Candied fruit is not everyone’s favorite but this adds flavor and moisture. Don’t leave it out!
You can buy the baking wafers online or in Specialty Food Stores that carry German food. They are very similar to Communion Wafers which you get in church and are called _“Backoblaten”_ in Germany.
If you can’t find the wafers you can make these cookies without wafers. Use a silicone baking mat instead of parchment paper and place the batter with an ice cream scoop directly onto the mat. Use a wet knife or bottom of a glass dipped in water to flatten the batter. Dip the bottom of the Lebkuchen in Chocolate after they are cooled completely.
There is no substitution for the Lebkuchen Spice Mixture! It is easy to make your own just follow my recipe.
Lebkuchen keep fresh for about 3-4 weeks stored in an airtight cookie tin in a cool and dry place.
How to make Lebkuchen
Start with beating the sugar and eggs together until they are light and fluffy. The color of the mixture will get paler and the volume of the mixture will double while you mix it. A stand mixer works best for this! Then add all the other ingredients and mix until well combined. The German Gingerbread Spice Mix is very easy to make yourself but you can also buy it in some Specialty Food Stores that carry German food. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and put it in the fridge overnight.
After resting in the fridge for at least ten hours, the Lebkuchen batter will be thick and have a texture like really thick porridge. It should be spreadable and keep its shape when you scoop it into balls.
The dough should be thicker in the middle and thin out to the edges. Dipping the knife or scraper in water helps if the batter starts to stick. If you can’t get your hands on Oblaten use a silicone baking mat instead of parchment paper and place the batter with an ice cream scoop directly onto the mat. Use a wet knife or bottom of a glass dipped in water to flatten the batter. It’s a bit more difficult but can be done.
Bake them for about 22 minutes, they should only barely brown on the edges and be soft in the middle. You want the Lebkuchen to be soft and moist and not hard and dry.
After they have cooled completely decorate them with a glaze. In Germany, you can get them without any glaze, with a dark chocolate glaze, or with a sugar glaze. My favorite is the sugar glaze but the chocolate glaze is the most popular. You can also press some blanched whole almonds into the glaze.
Chocolate Glaze
Melt 4 ounces quality dark together with 1 Tbsp coconut oil in the microwave or in a metal bowl set over some simmering water. Use a brush to coat the cooled Lebkuchen with the melted chocolate. Let the chocolate dry completely before putting them into a cookie tin.
Sugar Glaze
Combine 1 cup sifted powdered sugar and 2-3 Tbsp of water in a small bowl and whisk until smooth. Use a brush to coat the cooled cookies with the sugar glaze. Let it dry before putting them in a cookie tin.
Tools and Ingredients used for making this Lebkuchen recipe
Want to try this Lebkuchen cookies recipe?
PIN IT TO YOUR CHRISTMAS BOARD TO SAVE IT OR SHARE ON FACEBOOK!
Follow Plated Cravings on Pinterest for more great recipes!
Servings: 30
German Lebkuchen Recipe
This traditional Lebkuchen recipe is easy to make from scratch and loaded with nuts, candied fruit, and flavorful spices. 
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 22 minutes
Total Time: 32 minutes
Course: Dessert
Cuisine: German
Calories: 132kcal
Author: Julia Foerster
5 from 16 votes
Print PIN RECIPE Rate
Ingredients
Cups \- Metric
1 cup granulated sugar
5 large eggs
1 3/4 cups ground hazelnuts
1 3/4 cups ground almonds
1/2 cup candied citrus peel, pulsed in a food processor
1/2 cup candied orange peel, pulsed in a food processor
3 tbsp German gingerbread spice
1 tsp lemon zest
30-40 wafers, with a 70mm diameter (Oblaten)
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Instructions
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the eggs and sugar. Beat for about 15 minutes at medium speed until white and fluffy.
Add the ground hazelnuts, ground almonds, finely chopped candied orange peel, finely chopped citrus peel, gingerbread spice and lemon zest. Whisk until combined then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the batter rest in the fridge overnight or for at least 10 hours.
Preheat the oven to 320° F (160° C), line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Scoop the mixture with a spoon or an ice cream scoop onto the wafers (Oblaten) and smooth down the top until the very edge of the wafer with a wet knife. The dough should be thicker in the center and thinner on the edges. Set them on the lined sheet.
Bake for about 22 minutes, or until the Lebkuchen are set but still soft in the middle and have barely started to brown around the edges. Leave them on the tray to cool down completely.
Once the Lebkuchen are cooled, place a wire rack over a baking sheet (to catch the drippings). Dip the Lebkuchen in the chocolate glaze and let the excess drip back into the bowl. Then place the Lebkuchen on the wire rack. Let them dry completely and store them in an airtight container.
Notes
Recipe originally published December 2015. Updated with recipe video and more detailed instructions.
Nutrition Information
Calories: 132kcal | Carbohydrates: 13g | Protein: 3g | Fat: 7g | Cholesterol: 27mg | Sodium: 15mg | Potassium: 16mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 11g | Vitamin A: 40IU | Vitamin C: 0.5mg | Calcium: 32mg | Iron: 0.8mg
Did you Make this Recipe? Tag me Today!Share it on Instagram and tag @platedcravings or platedcravings!
NEVER MISS A RECIPE!
PINTEREST / FACEBOOK / INSTAGRAM / TWITTER
If you’ve tried this or any other of my recipes, don’t forget to rate the recipe and to leave me a comment. I love hearing from you!
Pecan Pie Cheesecake
German Stollen Recipe »
Plated Cravings owns the copyright on all images and text and does not allow for its original recipes and pictures to be reproduced anywhere other than at this site unless authorization is given. If you enjoyed the recipe and would like to publish it on your own site, please re-write it in your own words, and link back to my site and recipe page. Read my Disclosure and Privacy Policy. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
Free Air Fryer Course
Tips and strategies to get you air frying...fast!
Yes, I want in!
Thanks! Keep an eye on your inbox for updates.
Reader Interactions
Comments
1. vera ann crocker says
November 19, 2021 at 6:17 pm
Brings back child hood memories dear to my heart..thank you I have tried many recipes not as good Thank you for your kindness in sharing.
Reply
Julia Foerster says
November 19, 2021 at 6:51 pm
You’re so welcome!
Reply
2. Kahra says
January 26, 2021 at 2:40 pm
Thanks for this recipe! I used it to make an almost vegan recipe: 1/2 c each honey and molasses, 2 c each almond and hazelnut meal, 1/2 c each (still wet from cooking) candied orange and lemon peel, 4 T flaxseed meal, 2 T Lebkuchengewurtz (spice mix), 1 t vanilla, pinch of salt. Blended the wet ingredients in the food processor, then mixed with the dry and followed your directions. Glazed with rum and powdered sugar. So good!
Reply
3. JoAnn says
January 18, 2021 at 5:35 pm
When I first ready your recipe, it reminded me of fruit cake which I hate. Then I saw that my local Aldi store was selling packaged Lebkuchen cookies for Christmas. I tried both the sugar and chocolate glazed. The chocolate glazed were amazing. So, I tried your recipe, I found the following on Amazon; the Candied (Glazed) Orange Peel Dices and Küchle Back-Oblaten, Ground almonds & ground hazelnuts. I also found the Diced Citron candied peels, and lebkuchen spice.(super simple with everything right there. Making it by scratch was even more tasty than the Aldi version. Next time I will use your recipe for Lebkuchen spice but I was in a hurry to make before Christmas. Fantastic recipe!
Reply
4. Jenette says
January 03, 2021 at 11:35 pm
I live with my Oma and was also able to live in Germany for a couples years when I was younger. I love these cookies so much and they are so hard to get where we live. They used to carry them on base during Christmas time but the past few years stopped carrying them. I decided to try and make them myself this year and found your recipe. Man am I happy I tried it! It’s definitely not hard to make but the ingredients were somewhat hard to find. And grinding up everything is a labor of love for sure. I used your spice mix recipe as well…perfection! Thanl you for this great recipe, I will continue to use it. Oma approved of it too mmmmmm mmmm!!
Reply
5. Robina says
January 02, 2021 at 2:11 pm
So wonderful. I’m a German living abroad and have been looking for a decent recipe for a long time. This is the real deal and so easy to make. Thanks for posting! Off to make my second batch of the season :-)
Reply
Older Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
Welcome!
Hi, I'm Julia! Born in Germany, I call Canada now my home and love to share my favorite dishes with you! Here you'll find hundreds of recipes, all made from scratch with lots of tips and detailed step-by-step instructions. ➝ Visit my about page and ➝ subscribe to never miss a new recipe! 
Favorite Recipes
Black Forest Cake
Best Brioche French Toast
Butterscotch Cookies
Blueberry Bread
Easy Creme Brulee Recipe
Chocolate Mousse Cake
Top Posts
Moist Lemon Cake Recipe
Air Fryer Donuts
Air Fryer Onion Rings
Apple Strudel Recipe
Air Fryer Chicken Wings
Oven Roasted Potatoes
Footer
back to top
About
Privacy Policy & Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
As Featured On
Contact
Contact
Copyright © 2020 Plated Cravings
noscript=1
