https://dishingouthealth.com/mediterranean-eggplant-boats/
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
HOME 
ABOUT 
RECIPES
CONTACT
Search
You are here: Home / Recipes / Vegetarian / Mediterranean Eggplant Boats
Mediterranean Eggplant Boats
Dairy-FreeDinnerGluten-FreeLow CarbNut-FreeVeganVegetarian
June 28, 2019
Jump to Recipe Print Recipe
How to Cook Quinoa:
Quinoa is a quick-cooking grain with a neutral taste that takes well to just about any flavor combination. Prior to cooking, give the quinoa a quick rinse in a mesh strainer to remove its natural coating, called saponin, which can make it taste bitter. Additionally, I love to toast quinoa in the pan for 1 to 2 minutes prior to cooking to enhance its natural nutty flavor. After that, you can cook quinoa in either salted water or broth for more flavor. Look for quinoa in the bulk bin section of natural grocery stores, such as Whole Foods or Sprouts, to save up to $2.00 per pound.
Quinoa is one of the few plant sources of all nine essential amino acids required to build and repair protein tissues in the body, therefore making it a complete protein. For this recipe, quinoa provides enough protein and fiber to give the dish ample staying power.
What are The Benefits of Eating Eggplant?
Eggplants are part of the nightshades family, which have gained somewhat of a bad rap the last few years. This group of veggies contain trace amounts of the toxin solanine, which is responsible for their bitter taste. However, in order to notice any negative GI effects, one would need to consume a very large amount. For this reason, eggplant certainly should not be avoided simply because it is a nightshade.
Plus, eggplants are packed with an array of good-for-you nutrients. In addition to being rich in fiber, they also offer manganese (essential for normal growth), folate, potassium, plus vitamins K and C.
How Do You Make Homemade Salsa?
This Mediterranean-inspired salsa couldn’t be easier, and it leans on just a handful of ingredients. Combine tomatoes, roasted red peppers, onion, capers, and herbs (for example, basil or parsley) in a bowl and give it a toss. The capers add briny, salty tang, which give the salsa lots of delightful zing. A drizzle of olive oil and jolt of fresh lemon juice to finish off, and this salsa is ready in just 5 minutes.
More Mediterranean Recipes:
5 Ingredient Artichoke and Sun-Dried Tomato Dip
Spinach and Pesto White Lasagna
Pesto-Roasted Cauliflower with Garlic Sauce
Mediterranean Eggplant Boats
Mediterranean Eggplant Boats are a vegan and gluten free entree that's both weeknight-friendly and protein-packed.
4.41 from 5 votes
Print Pin Rate
Course: Entree, Vegetarian
Cuisine: Mediterranean
Prep Time: 20 minutes
Cook Time: 30 minutes
Total Time: 50 minutes
Servings: 4
Author: Jamie Vespa MS, RD
Ingredients
MEDITERRANEAN SALSA
1 cup chopped tomatoes
1/2 cup finely chopped jarred roasted red peppers
2 Tbsp. diced red onion
2 Tbsp. chopped fresh parsley
1 Tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
2 tsp. drained capers
2 tsp. fresh lemon juice
1/4 tsp. each sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
EGGPLANT BOATS
2 small to medium eggplants
3 Tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil divided
1/4 cup chopped shallots
3 garlic cloves finely chopped
1 cup cooked quinoa
2 Tbsp. tahini sesame seed paste
2 Tbsp. balsamic vinegar
3 Tbsp. chopped fresh herbs such as basil or parsley
Sea salt and black pepper to taste
Instructions
Prepare salsa by combining all ingredients in a small bowl; stir and set aside.
Preheat oven to 375°F.
Slice the eggplants in half lengthwise, right through the stem. Carve into the eggplant flesh all the way around the perimeter, and scoop flesh out; set aside. Place eggplant halves on a baking sheet, facing up. Brush the eggplant halves with 1 Tbsp. of the olive oil and lightly season with salt. Bake eggplant for 20 minutes, or until golden brown and lightly tender.
Heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Finely chop eggplant flesh and add to skillet, along with shallots and garlic. Cook mixture for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until softened. Stir in quinoa, tahini, balsamic, and herbs; cook 2 to 3 more minutes, stirring often, until mixture is warmed through. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Remove eggplant boats from oven and divide quinoa mixture evenly into each boat. Top with Mediterranean Salsa.
Tried this Recipe? Tag me on Instagram!Mention @dishingouthealth or tag dishingouthealth!
Tweet
Pin 2K
Share 39
2K Shares
Previous Post: « Korean Veggie Burger Bowls
Next Post: Charred Jalapeño and Corn Hummus »
Reader Interactions
Comments
January 27, 2021 at 1:04 am
The filling was tasty bu the eggplant was tough and rubbery so we threw out the eggplant and only ate the filling.
Reply
January 11, 2021 at 10:09 pm
Layer after layer of flavor! Added crumbled, soft feta cheese on top of the salsa.
Reply
January 12, 2021 at 10:07 am
I’m so happy to hear you enjoyed it! Thank you so much for taking the time to leave a review.
Reply
November 21, 2020 at 11:45 pm
Superb trying this today
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Δ
Primary Sidebar
Welcome!
I’m Jamie; Registered Dietitian, former magazine editor and current food journalist and recipe developer serving up delicious, nutritious recipes.
Recipe Key
30 Minutes
5 Ingredients
Appetizers & Snacks
Breakfast
Dairy-Free
Dessert & Baked Goods
Dinner
Dressings & Sauces
Favorites
Gluten-Free
Grain Bowls
Low Carb
Nut-Free
Salads & Side Dishes
Slow Cooker
Uncategorized
Vegan
Vegetarian
Recipe Categories
Recipe Categories Select Category 30 Minutes 5 Ingredients Appetizers & Snacks Breakfast Dairy-Free Dessert & Baked Goods Dinner Dressings & Sauces Favorites Gluten-Free Grain Bowls Low Carb Nut-Free Salads & Side Dishes Slow Cooker Uncategorized Vegan Vegetarian
30 Minute Recipes
Creamy Garlic-Paprika Shrimp Skillet
Easy 5 Ingredient Marsala Mushrooms
Pasta e Ceci (Italian Pasta and Chickpea Stew)
Vegan Cream of Mushroom Soup
Skillet Poblano and Pumpkin Enchiladas
Tuscan Sun-Dried Tomato Gnocchi
Most Popular Recipes
Nourishing White Bean and Lemon Soup
Spanish Rice and Beans (One Pot)
Wild Rice and Mushroom Soup
Quinoa Power Bowls with Maple Chipotle Brussels and Smoky Butternut Squash
Creamy Vegetable Soup (Vegan)
Butter Cauliflower
Home
About
Recipes
Contact
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Copyright © 2021 · Design by Deluxe Designs
2K Shares
Tweet
Pin 2K
Share 39
