https://amiraspantry.com/melitzanosalata-greek-eggplant-dip/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
All Recipes
Shop
About me
Subscribe!
Search
menu icon
subscribe
search icon
Search
Home
All Recipes
Shop
About me
Subscribe!
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Home » Appetizers » Melitzanosalata (Greek Eggplant Dip)
Melitzanosalata (Greek Eggplant Dip)
Published: Feb 5, 2021 · Modified: May 21, 2021 by Amira · This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission.
Share
Tweet
Pin
Yummly
Jump to Recipe Print Recipe
Melitzanosalata is a delicious Greek eggplant dip with simple ingredients. Roasted smoky eggplant combined with onion, garlic, vinegar and lime juice then finished off elegantly with a crunch. The perfect 30-minute dip for your party.
Table of contents
Why This Recipe Works
Recipe Ingredients
Ingredient Notes
Recipe Instructions
Recipe Expert Tips
Recipe FAQs
Recipe At A Glance
More Recipes From the Blog
Why This Recipe Works
Meletzanosalata pronounced as (mel-its- _zan_ -no sal- _ah_ -ta), is a dish different from Baba Ghanoush or the Arabic Eggplant Dip Mutabal. It has few ingredients with an emphasis on the smoky eggplant itself.
Not saying that any of them is better than the other but each one is unique on its own and you need to try them all to know which one you like the most.
I liked the special crunch in every bite coming from adding some chopped walnuts really delicious.
Recipe Ingredients
Ingredient Notes
I liked making this dish with a combination of vinegar and lime juice. Use any vinegar you have but red wine or apple cider makes for an extra special kick.
Recipe Instructions
Note: This is an overview of the instructions. The full instructions are in the recipe card below.
Cut a slit lengthwise in each eggplant to avoid bursting then roast in the oven , gas stove top, gas or charcoal grill. Give it time to soften up until skin is wrinkled and flesh becomes mushy. Let them cool down until you can handle them.
Line a colander with a clean kitchen towel or a cheese cloth. Scoop out the flesh and place them in the cheese cloth. Squeeze by hand to get the juices out or leave them to drain on their own.
Take the flesh out and chop with a knife. 
In a small bowl or jar with a lid, combine garlic, olive oil, lime juice, vinegar, salt and pepper. Shake well to combine.
In a deep bowl add chopped eggplant, chopped green onions and vinaigrette. Mix everything well then taste to adjust seasonings. 
Place the dip in a serving plate and garnish with parsley, chopped walnuts and a drizzle of olive oil.
Recipe Expert Tips
Roasting eggplant over open flame is always my preferred method as it makes the dip more smoky. You can roast in the oven as well and maybe adding a little liquid smoke for the flavor.
Make sure to drain the eggplant for this recipe or else you might end up with a watery dip.
You can place all the ingredients in your food processor for a smoother dip.
Garnishing options: aside from chopped parsley and walnuts you might want to try some chopped tomatoes, roasted peppers or feta cheese for a salty Mediterranean flavor.
Customize the dip to your liking. Although not traditional but you can spice it up with some smoked paprika, cumin, cayenne or chili powder.
Recipe FAQs
Melitzanosalata vs. Baba Ganoush
Although both start with smoky tender roasted eggplants, this Greek spread does not have tahini which is an ingredient in many Baba Ganoush recipes.
Can I make it ahead?
You sure can, this dip keeps well in the fridge for up to 2 days. Just be aware that the garlic intensifies its flavor so you might want to reduce it a bit if you are not a big fan.
Recipe At A Glance
More Recipes From the Blog
Mutabal (Eggplant Dip)
Oven Roasted Eggplant
Low Carb Eggplant Parmesan
Moussaka (musaka) recipe
Melitzanosalata (Greek Eggplant Dip)
A traditional Greek Style Eggplant dip that can be used as a spread. Smoky roasted eggplant combined with simple ingredients for a delicious homey appetizer.
5 from 2 votes
Print Pin Rate
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Course: Appetizer
Cuisine: Greek
Diet: Halal, Vegan
Prep Time: 5 minutes
Cook Time: 25 minutes
Total Time: 30 minutes
Servings: 4 servings
Calories: 183kcal
Author: Amira
Ingredients
2 large eggplants
2 garlic cloves grated
¼ cup extra virgin olive oil
1 Tablespoons red wine vinegar
1 Tablespoon lime juice.
Salt & black pepper
2 Green onions/ scallions sliced
2 Tablespoon finely chopped parsley
Kalamata olives
For garnish Optional Garnishes:
Diced tomatoes, chopped walnuts, feta cheese, red onions or red bell peppers
Instructions
Cut a slit lengthwise in each eggplant and roast on stove, grill or in the oven.
Set the eggplants aside to cool down for 10 minutes.
Scoop the pulp out and place in a colander lined with cheese cloth or a clean kitchen towel to drain excess liquids.
Place the pulp on a cutting board and chop with a sharp knife then put in a deep bowl.
In a jar or a small bowl combine garlic, olive oil, lime juice, vinegar, salt and pepper.
Pour the vinaigrette over the eggplant and mix well.
Taste to adjust seasoning.
Mix in the green onions. Refrigerate for 1-2 hours before serving.
When ready to serve, garnish with olives and whatever you choose and drizzle some olive oil on top.
Notes
Roasting eggplant over open flame is always my preferred method as it makes the dip more smoky. You can also use your outdoor grill or in a 450F oven. It will take probably between 20 to 30 minutes.
If you roast in the oven adding a little liquid smoke or smoky paprika would help get you some smoky flavor.
Make sure to drain the eggplant for this recipe or else you might end up with a watery dip.
You can place all the ingredients in your food processor for a smoother dip.
Garnishing options: aside from chopped parsley and walnuts you might want to try some chopped tomatoes, roasted peppers or feta cheese for a salty Mediterranean flavor.
Customize the dip to your liking. Although not traditional but you can spice it up with some smoked paprika, cumin, cayenne or chili powder.
If your eggplant is a little bitter mix in about 1/4 teaspoon of sugar to help with that.
This dip is better served cold, serve it with pita , crusty bread or veggie sticks. Also great with grilled meats.
Nutrition
Calories: 183kcal | Carbohydrates: 15g | Protein: 3g | Fat: 14g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Sodium: 8mg | Potassium: 564mg | Fiber: 7g | Sugar: 8g | Vitamin A: 283IU | Vitamin C: 10mg | Calcium: 31mg | Iron: 1mg
Tried this Recipe? Pin it for Later!Mention @AmirasPantry or tag AmirasPantry!
Sign up and learn more about Mediterranean flavors 
Dried Fruit Compote (Khoshaf)
Low Carb Chicken Lettuce Wraps »
Share
Tweet
Pin
Yummly
About Amira
I’m overjoyed that you have stopped by! My hope is to introduce you to new flavors, creative ways and fresh takes on favorites. To help you create food with style that will bring everyone around your kitchen table. From weeknight dinners for crazy busy days to desserts with the “wow” factor, and classic comforts from the Mediterranean. One thing in common, they are all recipes that have been tried and tested by family and friends.
Reader Interactions
Comments
April 09, 2021 at 8:28 am
Hi, Is it ok to use white vinegar instead of red wine vinegar ?
Reply
April 11, 2021 at 9:38 pm
Sum, you can use lemon juice instead. Hope this helps.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Primary Sidebar
ABOUT AMIRA'S PANTRY
I’m overjoyed that you have stopped by! This blog combines weeknight dinners for crazy busy days to desserts with the “wow” factor, and classic comforts from the Mediterranean. One thing in common, they are all recipes that have been tried and tested by family and friends. Read More…
LOOKING FOR A RECIPE!
Sign up and learn more about Mediterranean flavors
Don't miss our Holiday Appetizers!
COOKIES!
Pecan Snowball Cookies
Egyptian butter cookies ( petit fours / betefour)
Tahini cookies recipe
Kahk, (Eid cookies) with pistachios and honey
Maamoul (Date filled) cookies
Butter Crunch Cookies
DINNER TONIGHT
Baked sea bass in foil
Cheesy Chicken Tetrazzini
No Wine! Easy Shrimp Scampi Recipe
Mansaf Recipe
Cornish Game Hen Recipe Slow Cooker
Koshari; The National Dish of Egypt
STUNNING DESSERTS
Classic Tiramisu Recipe (Without Alcohol)
Chocolate Biscuit Cake (Lazy Cake)
Authentic Baklava Recipe; Baklava Rolls
Kunafa (Knafeh) Recipe
Footer
back to top
About
About Me
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Newsletter
Sign Up! for our latest recipes
Contact
Contact Us
Copyright © 2021 \- Amira's Pantry
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
