https://www.hungry-girl.com/recipe-makeovers/frozen-mexican-mocha
Site Search
Recipes
Food News
Recipe Makeovers
Ask HG Q&A
Weekly Recipes
Go-To Guides
Shop
Subscribe
All About HG
Videos
Podcast
Contact Us
Subscribe
All About HG
Shop
Videos
Podcast
Contact Us
Frozen Mexican Mocha Recipe + More At-Home Blended Coffee Drinks
Home 
Recipe Makeovers: Low-Calorie Recipe Swaps 
Frozen Mexican Mocha Recipe + More At-Home Blended Coffee Drinks 
Jun 23 2020
Lisa here! It's too warm for hot coffee, so now is the perfect time to start blending and make your own Frappuccino-style beverage at home! Today's recipe is sweet with a bit of spice -- feel free to leave out the cayenne if you like things on the mild side… 
Entire recipe: 80 calories, 4.5g total fat (1.5g sat. fat), 195mg sodium, 11.5g carbs, 3.5g fiber, 0g sugars, 3g protein 
Click for WW PersonalPoints™ value
Click here to see Lisa make it on Facebook, and click here for YouTube!
Prep: 5 minutes 
More: Drink Recipes (Smoothies, Cocktails & More), Vegetarian Recipes, Single Serving, 5 Ingredients or Less, 30 Minutes or Less
Ingredients:
2 tbsp. unsweetened dark cocoa powder
1 tbsp. instant coffee granules
2 tsp. sugar-free French vanilla powdered creamer
2 packets no-calorie sweetener
1/4 tsp. cinnamon, or more for topping
Dash cayenne pepper
1/2 cup unsweetened vanilla almond milk
1 1/2 cups crushed ice (about 12 ice cubes)
Optional: light whipped topping
Directions:
In a tall glass, combine cocoa, coffee, creamer, sweetener, cinnamon, and cayenne pepper. Add 1/4 cup hot water, and stir to dissolve. 
Add milk and 1/4 cup cold water, and mix well. 
Transfer to a blender, add ice, and blend at high speed until smooth, stopping and stirring if needed. 
MAKES 1 SERVING 
HG Alternative: Instead of blending your Mexican mocha for a frozen drink, serve it over ice! 
HG Tip: Looking for natural vanilla powdered creamer? Grab a bag of Laird Superfood Creamer!
Thirsty for More Blended Coffee Drinks? 
121 calories
84 calories
198 calories
90 calories
FYI: We may receive affiliate compensation from some of these links. 
Chew on this:
It's June 23rd, National Pecan Sandies Day. How about pecan stickies instead? Try a batch of our pecan-topped sticky buns.
Give your buddies the boost they need -- click "Send to a Friend" now!
We may have received free samples of food, which in no way influences whether these products are reviewed favorably, unfavorably, mentioned with indifference, or mentioned at all. Click for more about our editorial and advertising policies.
The WW points values for these products and/or recipes were calculated by Hungry Girl and are not an endorsement or approval of the product, recipe or its manufacturer or developer by WW International, Inc., the owner of the SmartPoints® and PersonalPoints™ trademarks. 
Questions on the WW points values listed? Click here. 
Hungry Girl provides general information about food and lifestyle. This information and any linked materials are not intended and should not be construed as medical advice, nor is the information a substitute for professional medical expertise or treatment. Click here for more information.
Recipes | Food News | Ask HG Q&A | Go-to Guides | Shop | Video | Podcast
Subscribe | All About HG | Contact Us
Unsubscribe | Home | Editorial Policy | Advertising Information | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Close
Send to a friend
Thanks for sharing! 
Keep forwarding Hungry Girl's Tips & Tricks... 
Return to Frozen Mexican Mocha Recipe + More At-Home Blended Coffee Drinks or Hungry Girl Homepage
Hungry Girl Article to Send:
Frozen Mexican Mocha Recipe + More At-Home Blended Coffee Drinks
Enter your friends' e-mail addresses:
E-mail addresses will be used _only_ to send the Hungry Girl Email requested.) 
Your name:
Your e-mail address:
Write a note (optional):
Close
Send to a friend
Thanks for sharing! 
Keep forwarding Hungry Girl's Tips & Tricks... 
Hungry Girl Article to Send:
Frozen Mexican Mocha Recipe + More At-Home Blended Coffee Drinks
Enter your friends' e-mail addresses: 
E-mail addresses will be used _only_ to send the Hungry Girl Email you requested.)
Your name:
Your e-mail address:
Write a note (optional):
Copyright © 2022 Hungry Girl. All Rights Reserved. 
Window size: 1600 x 900 
Viewport size: 1600 x 793
This website uses cookies to improve your browsing experience. By using this site you agree to the use of cookies. Privacy Policy
Accept
