https://www.justapinch.com/recipes/side/rice-side/carrot-cumin-pilaf.html
Recipes
Find a Recipe Blue Ribbon Recipes Newest Recipes Pinch It!™ Feed Recipe Categories What is a Blue Ribbon? Meet the Test Kitchen
Content
Food Bites & Articles Videos
Community Activities
Groups Contests Shopping
1. Home
2. Recipes
3. Side
4. Rice Side
5. Carrot-Cumin Pilaf
carrot-cumin pilaf 
1 Review 
review edit share print 
6 Pinch It! 
Share on Facebook Share on Pinterest Share on Twitter Share in Email Save to Yummly 
By C G 
Celestina9000 
from Vallèe du Willamette, OR
Cowgirl's Cuisine: Rustic Recipes and Cowgirl Adventures from a Texas Ranch' by Paula Disbrowe. Standard Texmati or Indian Basmati can be substituted for brown Texmati rice.
serves 6-8
prep time 25 Min
cook time 55 Min
method Stove Top
Ingredients For carrot-cumin pilaf
2 c vegetable broth or chicken broth
2 fresh bay leaves
2 fresh oregano sprigs
2 Tbsp 
olive oil
2 md shallots, peeled and finely minced
1 c brown texmati rice (read recipe intro)
1 1/4 tsp cumin seeds
1 md carrot, sliced into thin rounds (thicker slices if using brown rice)
1/2 tsp salt
ADVERTISEMENT
How To Make carrot-cumin pilaf
1 Gently warm the vegetable broth, bay leaves and oregano sprigs in a saucepan over medium-low heat.
2 Heat up the olive oil in a large deep skillet over medium heat. Add the minced shallots, cooking until softened and lightly golden, about 3-4 minutes.
3 Next add the Texmati rice and cumin seeds; cook until the rice is opaque and the cumin seeds are fragrant, about 4 minutes.
4 Stir in the carrot rounds and salt.
5 Pour the warmed broth into the rice mixture. Stir, bring to a BOIL, cover and reduce heat to a simmer. If using brown Texmati rice, you will have to cook the rice for about 45-50 minutes. If using standard Texmati or basmati, cook for about 20 minutes.
6 Remove skillet from burner and set aside, covered for 10 minutes.
7 Taste and adjust seasoning if desired, fluff with fork and serve.
Last Step: Don't forget to share! Make all your friends drool by posting a picture of your finished recipe on your favorite social network. And don't forget to tag Just A Pinch and include justapinchrecipes so we can see it too! 
Categories & Tags for Carrot-Cumin Pilaf:
Mexican 
Rice Sides 
Vegetarian 
Vegan 
Rice/Grains 
Stove Top 
ADVERTISEMENT
About Terms of Use Club Rules Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Advertising Support
2021 Just A Pinch Recipe Club, LLC. All rights Reserved. 
Powered by American Hometown Media, Inc. • Just A Pinch Food Group • BUILD 2.0.222
