https://www.recipetineats.com/garlic-prawns-shrimp/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to footer navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
RecipeTin Eats
Fast Prep, Big Flavours
Main Menu
Display Search Bar
My RecipeTin
Search Recipes...
My RecipeTin
Recipes
Recipes By Category
Mains
Chicken
Chicken mince
Beef Recipes
Ground Beef (Mince)
Pork
Lamb
Turkey
Shrimp / Prawns
Salmon
Fish
Salad Meals
Soups
One Pot
Slow Cooker
Sides
All
Vegetables
Show Off Salads
Rice
Potato
Pasta
All
Pasta bakes
Pasta salads
Sweet
Cake recipes
Cupcakes & Muffins
Cookies
Puddings & Cosy Desserts
Bite Size
Pies
Slices & Bars
Frosting & Icing
Cuisine
Asian
All
Stir fries
Noodles
Soups
Chinese
Japanese
Korean
Thai
Vietnamese
French
Greek
Indian
Italian
Mediterranean
Mexican
Middle Eastern
South American
Dietary
Gluten Free
Low Calorie
Vegetarian
Other Categories
BBQ
Breakfast
Burgers
Cocktails
Party Foods
Rice Recipes
Roasts
Sandwiches & Sliders
Iconic Dishes✨
Collections
About
Me
RecipeTin Meals
Free Recipe Books
Contact
eBooks
The Food Photography Book
Chicken Wings Cookbook
Food Bloggers Central
Nitty Gritty
Policy: Use of Recipes & Images
Privacy & Disclosure
Home __Prawns/Shrimp
Garlic Prawns (Shrimp)
By:Nagi
Published:13 Mar '20Updated:28 Sep '20
138 Comments
Recipe v Video v Dozer v
Garlic Prawns – who feels like a big pile of plump juicy prawns marinated in garlic, seared until golden and laced with a lemon garlic butter?? Hands down, my favourite way to cook prawns!
Quick and easy, never fails to impress. And the secret ingredient that makes all the difference? A splash of white wine which adds an extra edge of flavour. _Restaurant secret!_
Garlic Prawns
This is a spectacular way to cook prawns that’s been a family favourite for as long as I can remember.
Just 6 ingredients – prawns, garlic, white wine, butter, olive oil and lemon (I get salt and pepper for free). Prawns are delicious plain, so simple is best!
Quick to cook – just 6 minutes. Any longer and you’ve over cooked the prawns 😭;
Though the recipe calls for a 20 minute marinade, it’s optional; and
It’s always a hit. ALWAYS!!
A splash of white wine is the secret ingredient that makes these prawns amazing!
What you need for Garlic Prawns
Here’s what you need. The key ingredient here that makes all the difference is white wine. Wine adds complexity and depth of flavour to this otherwise simple dish.
Use any white wine you have. Dry white wine is best but even sweet ones work great. Rose and Champagne are also terrific!
How to make garlic prawns
This is a 6 minute recipe so make sure you have all the ingredients on hand, ready to throw into the skillet!
1. Marinate prawns in olive oil, garlic and pepper for just 20 minutes, if you have time (otherwise skip it). PRO TIP: _Add salt just before cooking so it doesn’t draw juice out of the prawns = less juicy prawns and not as golden!_
2. Sear in batches – don’t crowd the pan! Less prawns = better colour = easier to handle = won’t overcook. ( PRO TIP: _We use butter AND oil for searing. Butter = better flavour, but if you_ _only use butter, it burns at the high heat required to make prawns golden_ )
3. Wine – it will sizzle and steam when the wine hits the hot pan which is GOOD! This means it reduced down very quickly (~30 seconds) which is exactly what we want (fast cook = juicy prawns)
4. More butter (optional) – this is optional, it will create extra sauce for wow factor when you plate it up (pictured!) and provides plenty of sauce for mopping up with bread. PRO TIP: _This is added at the end because if you add it at the start, you end up deep frying prawns in butter!_
5. Lemon – an essential finishing touch;
6. Parsley – a little sprinkle for garnish!
Oh – here’s the reason I like to make extra sauce: FOR MOPPING UP WITH BREAD. All that garlic and the juices from the prawns makes the most outrageously delicious butter.
Some people start fist fights over the prawns. I’ll fight you for the butter!!😂
PS Use this crusty artisan bread recipe. Pretty sure it’s now been officially crowned as the world’s easiest yeast bread recipe!)
Garlic Prawns are super easy to make, but I do have a few tips to make sure you nail it every single time!
Tips for the BEST Garlic Prawns
CHOP the garlic , don’t use a garlic press. Garlic press = finer garlic that’s also juicy which will burn at the high heat we use to cook the prawns;
Fresh is best, but frozen is really great nowadays! 5 years ago, I never would have said that. But nowadays, there are very good quality frozen prawns. Look for big, plump frozen ones – they work best if using frozen;
Dry prawns – especially if using thawed frozen prawns. Wet prawns will not get that lovely golden sear in the short time it takes to cook prawns and you’ll end up with stewed prawns;
Fast cook – overcooked prawns are rubbery and hard, rather than juicy and plump. They take 3 minutes max to cook (medium to large);
Cook in batches – don’t crowd the pan! Crowded pan = stewed prawns rather than seared. We want to sear for maximum flavour. Remember, colour = flavour! So cook half the prawns then remove, then cook the other half. Also, cooking less prawns at a time is easier to handle ie turning them one at a time.
High heat, large pan – to help cook the prawns perfectly and get a nice sear on them;
Use tongs not a spatula – turn each prawn individually, don’t stir them;
Sear in butter + oil – butter provides flavour, but butter burns at high heat. To counteract this, we use a combo of butter + oil here;
Wine will SIZZLE and STEAM! The pan should be super hot when you pour the wine in so it sizzles and evaporates quickly (30 seconds or less). If your prawns simmer in a pool of wine, then you’ll simmer away the seared surface = loss of flavour 😩
6 minute rule – This should take 6 minutes or less to cook. Any longer, and the prawns will probably be overcooked……😩
Be generous with lemon! Seafood loves lemon. I make garlic prawns with a medium amount of lemon in it, but I always serve with extra wedges for people to serve themselves.
Want a creamy sauce for Garlic Prawns?
Use this Creamy Garlic Prawns recipe – same garlic marinated prawns, PLUS a garlicky creamy parmesan sauce!
What goes with Garlic Prawns
Crusty bread for mopping up that tasty garlic butter sauce is essential! For homemade options, try one of these (I especially recommend the crusty Artisan bread – insanely easy recipe!):
World’s Easiest Yeast Bread recipe – Artisan, NO KNEAD crusty bread
Sandwich Bread WITHOUT yeast
Soft No Knead Dinner Rolls
World’s best No Yeast Bread – Irish Soda Bread
Savoury Cheese Muffins
Round out your meal with some sides – here are some classics for warm summer days:
Corn Salad with Avocado
Potato Salad
Lemon Potato Salad
Tomato Salad with Basil
Pasta Salad with Sun Dried Tomatoes
MARINATED Vegetarian Pasta Salad!
Side Salads
Prawns cooked on the BBQ!
Also – BBQ option!! This recipe I’m sharing today is for Garlic Prawns cooked on the stove. For larger get togethers, I tend to do big batches on the BBQ and I make the sauce separately – here’s my Grilled Garlic Prawns/Shrimp with Lemon Garlic Butter.
You will love how crispy you can get the prawns on the barbie! _– Nagi x_
Watch how to make it
Hungry for more? Subscribe to my newsletter and follow along on Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram for all of the latest updates.
Garlic Prawns (Shrimp!)
Author: Nagi
Prep: 10 mins
Cook: 6 mins
Total: 16 mins
Main, Starter
Western
4.98 from 41 votes
Servings 4
Tap or hover to scale
Print
Recipe video above. Hands down, my favourite way to cook fresh prawns! Simple and fabulous, the 3 tips for top notch garlic prawns is to chop rather than use a mincer for the garlic (it splatters and burns on high heat), only marinate for 20 minutes and the splash of wine gives this a flavour edge as well as stopping the garlic from burning. Serves 2 as a main, 4 as a starter.
Ingredients
CupsMetric
Garlic marinade for praws:
500g / 1lb prawns (shrimp) , peeled and deveined, tail on (unpeeled weight 1kg/2lb, Note 1)
4 garlic cloves , finely chopped (don't use crusher/mincer)
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil (separated)
1/2 tsp black pepper
Cooking
1/2 tsp salt
1.5 tbsp olive oil
50g / 3.5 tbsp unsalted butter , cut into 1.5cm / 1/2" cubes (Note 2)
1/4 cup dry white wine (Note 3)
2 tbsp lemon juice
Serving
2 tbsp parsley, finely chopped (garnish)
lemon wedges
Bread for mopping!
Instructions
Marinade: Place the prawns, garlic, olive oil and pepper in bowl. Gently toss then set aside for 20 minutes.
Salt: Add salt into prawns just before cooking and toss.
Cooking
Sear in batches: Heat oil and about 1/3 of the butter in a large heavy based fry pan over high heat. When the butter is melted, add half the prawns - don't crowd the pan.
Cook for 1 minute until light golden then turn with tongs. Cook 1 minute then remove onto a plate. Cook the remaining prawns also for 1 minute each side (you shouldn't need more oil). 
Return first batch of prawns back into pan.
Add wine \- it will sizzle and be steamy! Stir, scraping the bottom of the pan, until wine mostly evaporates - around 30 seconds.
Butter & lemon: Scatter remaining butter across pan, add lemon juice. After butter melts, stir for 30 seconds, then remove from stove.
Garnish & serve: Transfer to serving plate, sprinkle with parsley and serve with extra lemon wedges. Bread for mopping is essential - try this simple Crusty Artisan Bread!
Recipe Notes:
1\. Prawns \- if using frozen, thaw and drain well to remove excess moisture otherwise the prawns won't go golden, they will just stew and get watery in the pan. Use paper towels to pat dry.
If using fresh/whole prawns, use 1kg/2lb (peeled weight is about half).
2\. Less butter - you can skip the extra butter added at the end to reduce calories. Creates sauce and makes this extra indulgent, but it's super delicious even without.
3\. Wine - A dry white wine is best. Wine adds an edge to the flavour that takes this up a notch, so don't skip it!
If you can't consume alcohol, use chicken or vegetable broth.
4\. TIPS:
Chop garlic , don't use mincer because it will burn at the high heat
Marinading is optional
Cook in batches, don't crowd the pan - the prawns will stew rather than sear.
You don't get charring on the prawns because of the addition of the wine. It's what stops the garlic from burning.
Oil + butter stops butter from burning and smoking out your house
SALT \- you shouldn't need loads because prawns are naturally salty.
Cook on BBQ : See this recipe.
5\. HOW TO TELL A PRAWN IS COOKED : Prawn hangs straight = raw, curled in "C" shape = perfectly cooked, curled tightly in an "O" shape = overcooked (noooo!!!)
6\. Nutrition per serving including ALL the sauce!
Nutrition Information:
Serving: 220gCalories: 311cal (16%)Carbohydrates: 2g (1%)Protein: 26g (52%)Fat: 21g (32%)Saturated Fat: 8g (50%)Cholesterol: 343mg (114%)Sodium: 1267mg (55%)Potassium: 123mg (4%)Fiber: 1g (4%)Sugar: 1g (1%)Vitamin A: 312IU (6%)Vitamin C: 9mg (11%)Calcium: 190mg (19%)Iron: 3mg (17%)
Keywords: Garlic Prawns, Garlic shrimp
Did you make this recipe?I love hearing how you went with my recipes! Tag me on Instagram at @RecipeTinEats.
Originally published May 2017. Updated with better video and photos – because it’s a personal favourite recipe and it deserves the best I can do! 🙂
More prawn recipes
Asian Chilli Garlic Prawns (Shrimp)
Crunchy Baked Shrimp in Garlic Butter Sauce (Prawns)
Crispy Grilled Shrimp (Prawns) with Lemon Garlic Butter
Creamy Garlic Prawn Pasta
Shrimp / Prawn Pasta with Lemon
Garlic Shrimp Mac and Cheese
Prawns/Shrimp
Life of Dozer
Even if garlic wasn’t bad for dogs, he still wouldn’t get one. They’re for the homeless man! Shame on you Dozer!!!
Previous Post
Leek and Potato Soup
Next Post
World’s best No Yeast Bread – Irish Soda Bread
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative!
Read More
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Related Posts
Honey Prawns – stays crispy!
Prawn (Shrimp) Stir Fry
Creamy Garlic Prawns (Shrimp)
More Prawns/Shrimp __
Reader Interactions
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Cooked this? Rate this recipe! Cooked this? Rate this recipe! 
Comment 
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me via e-mail if anyone answers my comment.
Δ
138 Comments
March 6, 2022 at 5:20 am
Are we allowed to share recipes on social media? I would most definitely want to share this one as it is sooooo quick and easy and great for flexible dieting aswell…..
Reply
March 6, 2022 at 4:13 pm
I am happy for you to share on social media Marlene as long as you follow my policies on sharing my images! I have notes about that here: https://www.recipetineats.com/policy-use-of-recipes-images/ N x
Reply
Older Comments
Primary Sidebar
Search Recipes...
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative! Read More __
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Meet Dozer
Official taste tester of RecipeTin Eats! Meet Dozer __
As Featured On
What's for Dinner?
Beef Enchiladas 
Butter Chicken 
Chinese Chicken Salad 
Salisbury Steak with Mushroom Gravy 
Vietnamese Coconut Caramel Chicken 
Fast prep. Big flavours!
Never miss a recipe
Back to Top
Search Recipes...
Related
RecipeTin Japan
Food Bloggers Center
Help
Contact Us
Image Use
Privacy Policy & Terms
Site Credits Maintained by Zao Designed by Melissa Rose Design Developed by Once Coupled © RecipeTin Eats 2022 · All Rights Reserved Back to Top
