https://www.recipetineats.com/pasta-alla-norma-eggplant-pasta/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to footer navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
RecipeTin Eats
Fast Prep, Big Flavours
Main Menu
Display Search Bar
My RecipeTin
Search Recipes...
My RecipeTin
Recipes
Recipes By Category
Mains
Chicken
Chicken mince
Beef Recipes
Ground Beef (Mince)
Pork
Lamb
Turkey
Shrimp / Prawns
Salmon
Fish
Salad Meals
Soups
One Pot
Slow Cooker
Sides
All
Vegetables
Show Off Salads
Rice
Potato
Pasta
All
Pasta bakes
Pasta salads
Sweet
Cake recipes
Cupcakes & Muffins
Cookies
Puddings & Cosy Desserts
Bite Size
Pies
Slices & Bars
Frosting & Icing
Cuisine
Asian
All
Stir fries
Noodles
Soups
Chinese
Japanese
Korean
Thai
Vietnamese
French
Greek
Indian
Italian
Mediterranean
Mexican
Middle Eastern
South American
Dietary
Gluten Free
Low Calorie
Vegetarian
Other Categories
BBQ
Breakfast
Burgers
Cocktails
Party Foods
Rice Recipes
Roasts
Sandwiches & Sliders
Iconic Dishes✨
Collections
About
Me
RecipeTin Meals
Free Recipe Books
Contact
eBooks
The Food Photography Book
Chicken Wings Cookbook
Food Bloggers Central
Nitty Gritty
Policy: Use of Recipes & Images
Privacy & Disclosure
Home __Pasta Recipes
Pasta alla norma (Eggplant pasta)
By:Nagi
Published:2 Nov '20Updated:1 Jun '21
110 Comments
Recipe v Video v Dozer v
Pasta alla norma_ is a traditional Italian pasta with eggplant in a tomato sauce. It’s an excellent, meaty-like but vegetarian main dish that’s everything you want in a pasta – comforting, satisfying, and slurp-worthy good!
Pasta alla norma: Eggplant pasta
When it comes to vegetables-as-the-main, eggplant rates very highly in my books because it’s _meaty_ and easy to prepare. It’s a sponge for flavour, silky and delicious in texture, good value most of the year round and extremely versatile.
This pasta is Sicilian, and as with many traditional Italian eggplant dishes, the slices are traditionally fried in a hefty amount of oil. I prefer roasting the eggplant – it’s healthier, plus the eggplant cubes hold their shape better rather than turning into unidentifiable mush when tossed in the pasta sauce!
I like to make Pasta alla Norma using tomato passata instead of crushed tomatoes because it makes it saucier. I love how the pasta sauce clings to the pasta strands as well as the plump roasted eggplant.
Roasting the eggplant
The key to making Pasta alla Norma well is to cook the eggplant so it’s caramelised on the outside and soft inside, but mostly holds its shape when tossed in the tomato pasta sauce rather than turning into mush.
To do this, you just need salt, pepper and olive oil, and 25 minutes in a hot 240°C / 450°F oven to get some nice colour on the outside of the eggplant as well as creating a crust so the eggplant cubes hold their shape.
I cut the eggplant cubes a little bit smaller than when I roast eggplant cubes to serve as a simple side dish or to use in salads (like this Eggplant Lentil Salad – it’s very, very good!). I find a slightly smaller size is more suitable for pasta – for dispersion and how it eats.
What goes in the eggplant pasta sauce
And here are the other ingredients in Pasta alla Norma. _Basil_ is a key ingredient that really adds a fresh touch to the finished dish but if you don’t have it, don’t worry, I have solutions for you. Read on!
PS. And no, you don’t have to tie your spaghetti with a ribbon 😂)
Pasta – any kind will work here except really tiny ones like risoni or those tiny alphabet or other novelty pastas. Traditionally, macaroni is used but these days it’s made with all sorts of pastas – short (like rigatoni, penne, ziti, casarecce) and long (spaghetti, fettuccine, bucatini). I really like serving it with long pasta – especially with the smooth pasta sauce I use in this recipe;
Tomato passata – aka tomato puree: This is strained, plain, pureed tomato which is thick and smooth, so it’s brilliant for quick pasta sauces. Normal crushed or diced canned tomato will also work but you will need to simmer for around 20 minutes until the tomato starts to break down to create a nice thick pasta sauce. You’ll find passata in the pasta section of regular supermarkets nowadays, and it doesn’t cost much more than canned tomato. _More on Tomato Passatahere;_
White wine – optional ingredient, just a splash to add extra flavour to the sauce. Good trick for when you are making quick sauces! Any white wine that’s not too sweet or woody will do here. I use sauvignon blanc and pinot gris because that’s what I drink;
Garlic and onion (or Eschallots) – essential for flavour base for simple pasta sauces, without which the sauce is too bland!
Italian herb mix or oregano – to add a touch of extra flavour into this quick sauce;
Chilli flakes – aka red pepper flakes, for a touch of warmth. 100% optional; and
Basil – as my brother sternly told me, “it’s not Pasta alla Norma without basil!”. Having said that though, I have made it many times using fresh thyme, which goes so well with eggplant. Also you can increase the amount of dried herbs in the pasta sauce instead and it is still 100% delicious. it’s just not true, traditional Pasta alla Norma that’s all!
Here it is with thyme instead of basil. And it’s still absolutely delicious!
How to make Pasta alla Norma pasta sauce
This is a nice quick recipe because we’re using Tomato Passata. It’s already smooth compared with crushed tomato, which needs at least 20 minutes to break down to thicken the sauce.
We start by sautéing the onion and garlic, add the white wine and let it simmer rapidly to cook out the harsh winey smell, leaving behind its tasty flavour base which adds an extra _something-something_ to our pasta sauce!
Then just add the Tomato Passata, dried herbs, salt and pepper and simmer for just 5 minutes. Finally, fold through the roasted eggplant, toss through pasta, throw in some basil and you’re done!
Traditionally in Sicily, Pasta alla Norma is served topped with grated _ricotta_ _sal_ _ata_ , a firm, salted version of ricotta. However ricotta salata is difficult to source outside of real Italian delis, so I use grated parmesan cheese or pecorino instead.
What to serve with Pasta alla Norma
The other great benefit of this eggplant pasta dish is that it’s loaded with a good amount of vegetables from both the tomato and eggplant, so you really don’t even need to add a side salad to supplement your daily vegetable intake! It really is a complete meal.
However, if you did want to add a side salad, a classic Italian Rocket Salad with Shaved Parmesan would be ideal. The balsamic dressing in that salad really complements the flavour in this pasta. Otherwise, put together your own salad with a Balsamic Vinegar Dressing.
For a big Italian night in, add a side of proper Italian focaccia or garlic bread. Or if you want to go _all_ the way, upgrade to _Cheesy_ Garlic Bread and finish with a classic Tiramisu. And don’t forget to invite me over for dinner! 😉 _– Nagi x_
Watch how to make it
Hungry for more? Subscribe to my newsletter and follow along on Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram for all of the latest updates.
Pasta alla Norma (Eggplant pasta)
Author: Nagi
Prep: 10 mins
Cook: 45 mins
Mains
Italian
5 from 33 votes
Servings 4
Tap or hover to scale
Print
Recipe video above. This is a traditional Italian pasta dish from Sicily, usually begun by cooking eggplant on the stove in a hefty amount of oil. I prefer roasting the eggplant – less oil plus the eggplant holds its shape better, especially when you roast at a high temp to caramelise the surface!
Finishing with a good amount of fresh basil is traditional but even if you don't have any, there's other alternatives to add a touch of other flavour – such as fresh thyme, or extra dried herbs in the sauce.
This is an excellent and satisfyingly "meaty" vegetarian main dish that will have even card-carrying carnivores asking for seconds!
Ingredients
CupsMetric
800g / 1.6 lb eggplant , cut into 2.5cm/1" cubes (2 medium/large ones)
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1/2 tsp each salt and pepper
Pasta Sauce:
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves , finely minced
1/2 small onion , very finely chopped (or 2 eschallots)
1/4 cup dry white wine , anything not too sweet or woody (Note 1)
700g / 24 oz tomato passata (aka tomato puree, Note 2)
1/4 cup water
1 tsp dried Italian herbs or oregano
1/2 tsp red pepper flakes , optional (for a hint of heat)
1/2 tsp each salt and pepper
300g / 10 oz spaghetti or other pasta, long or short (macaroni, rigatoni, penne, ziti, fettucini, bucatini)
Serving:
1/2 cup basil leaves , roughly chopped (Note 3)
Parmesan cheese , grated (or ricotta salata if you have it – more traditional)
Instructions
Roasted eggplant:
Preheat oven to 240°C / 450°F (220°C fan). Line a tray with baking / parchment paper.
Toss eggplant with oil, salt and pepper. Spread on the tray and roast for 20 minutes.
Flip, then roast for a further 5 minutes. Cool on tray (this helps the eggplant hold its shape when tossing).
Cooking pasta:
Bring a large pot of salted water to the boil. Start cooking the pasta a couple of minutes after you start making the sauce (next section), until al dente or to your liking.
Sauce:
Heat oil in a very large skillet over medium heat. Add garlic, cook for 20 seconds until golden, then add onion and cook for 2 to 3 minutes until translucent and cooked through.
Increase heat to medium-high and add wine, if using. Let it simmer, scraping the base of the pan to deglaze, until the wine mostly evaporates.
Add tomato passata. Now pour the water into the passata bottle, screw on the lid, shake, and pour that in too (waste nothing!)
Add dried herbs, red pepper flakes, salt and pepper. Stir and simmer 5 minutes.
Stir in eggplant, then add cooked and drained pasta. GENTLY toss until pasta is coated in the sauce (so the eggplant doesn't turn into complete mush!).
Serve immediately, garnished with a good pinch of fresh basil and parmesan.
Recipe Notes:
1\. Wine – excellent way to elevate simple quick simmer sauces like this, adds depth of flavour. You can’t taste the wine and the alcohol is cooked out. Omit if you can’t consume alcohol.
I use sauvignon blanc and pinot gris as they are my standard drinking wines. You do NOT need to use an expensive wine, you can’t tell the difference. I like to pick up bargain bottles when I see them at the liquor store for cooking purposes only. Freeze leftovers in ice cube trays then once frozen, in containers in the freezer – for easy use going forward. 
2.Tomato passata – pureed, strained tomatoes, sometimes labelled Tomato Puree in the US (here’s a photo of Mutti brand Tomato Passata sold at Walmart). Readily available in Australian supermarkets nowadays, alongside pasta sauces. Smooth and thick rather than chunky like canned tomato, so no need to simmer to break down the tomato.
Crushed canned tomato can be used instead, but simmer sauce for 20 minutes to soften the tomato (adjust pasta cooking time start too, accordingly).
3\. Fresh basil is a key element of traditional Pasta alla Norma. However if you don’t have it, you can compensate by adding other herby flavours such as:
1 1/2 tsp fresh thyme leaves – this is really good, it’s my favourite when I don’t have basil!
1/2 tsp dried thyme or oregano – extra, added into the sauce
4. Making ahead / reheating: Toss eggplant in sauce then cool and use as needed. For reheating pasta already in sauce, this pasta reheats better than most because it’s quite saucy from the Tomato Passata. Just reheat in the microwave for 2 minutes on high (for 1 serving), using water as needed to loosen.
Nutrition Information:
Calories: 530cal (27%)Carbohydrates: 83g (28%)Protein: 15g (30%)Fat: 16g (25%)Saturated Fat: 2g (13%)Sodium: 828mg (36%)Potassium: 1178mg (34%)Fiber: 12g (50%)Sugar: 18g (20%)Vitamin A: 655IU (13%)Vitamin C: 23mg (28%)Calcium: 104mg (10%)Iron: 4mg (22%)
Keywords: eggplant pasta, Pasta alla norma, roasted eggplant
Did you make this recipe?I love hearing how you went with my recipes! Tag me on Instagram at @RecipeTinEats.
More exuberant eggplant
Eggplant Parmigiana
Moussaka (Greek Beef and Eggplant Lasagna)
Oven Roasted Eggplant (aubergine)
Eggplant Curry – South Indian Brinjal Curry
Lentil and Roasted Eggplant Salad
Grilled Eggplant with Yoghurt Sauce
Middle Eastern Roasted Eggplant with Couscous
Eggplant
Life of Dozer
Not quite the sweet and innocent fluff ball you thought he was, hmm….??
HAPPY HALLOWEEN! 👻🎃
Previous Post
Char Siu Pork (Chinese BBQ Pork)
Next Post
Sautéed Brussels Sprouts in Carbonara Sauce
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative!
Read More
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Related Posts
Baked Mac and Cheese
Really Quick Broccoli Pasta
Spaghetti alla Puttanesca
More Pasta Recipes __
Reader Interactions
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
Cooked this? Rate this recipe! Cooked this? Rate this recipe! 
Comment
Name 
Email 
Website
Notify me via e-mail if anyone answers my comment.
Δ
110 Comments
November 4, 2021 at 1:09 am
This recipe gave me nostalgy from when I used to eat it at Olive Garden, simply loved it!!
Reply
October 20, 2021 at 12:58 pm
So simple and sooo tasty! 6 kids asked for a second plate! 
Thanks for this easy full of flavor recipe 😊
Reply
September 18, 2021 at 4:26 pm
Sooooo simple and yummy! This will definitely be on regular rotation!
Reply
August 8, 2021 at 3:48 am
Loved the pasta Norma . Divine! 
I added a teaspoon of sugar to cut the acidity… so perfect!!!
Reply
July 30, 2021 at 8:11 am
I had an eggplant from a farm share that I needed to do something with. I used your roasted eggplant recipe. It was delicious. We just ate it like an appetizer. I must try Pasta Norma now.
Reply
July 7, 2021 at 3:42 am
My ten year old daughter made this today(with a little supervision) It is one of the best pasta dishes we have ever tasted! So rich and delicious! She is a vegetarian so is delighted with the recipe. Thanks!
Reply
May 25, 2021 at 9:32 am
I made this recipe today. It was not complicated. My husband and I loved it. I will definitely make it again.
Reply
May 4, 2021 at 7:47 pm
I made this last night – it was loved by all! My husband and I love eggplants and their preparation was an excellent way to preserve their shape without them becoming mush in the sauce. I’m now also a passata convert 😉
Reply
March 10, 2021 at 4:35 pm
Would this work if I added beef mince? Trying to make more kid friendly. Thanks
Reply
March 11, 2021 at 11:35 am
Yes 100%! Brown the mince off first though to get some good colour 🙂 N x
Reply
March 17, 2021 at 9:14 am
I love this recipe! Thank you. It’s a perfect one for the child who loves red sauce….and eats eggplant. We had this at a restaurant with mozzarella and roasted tomatoes. But this is easier for a quick meal. Mille grazie
Reply
March 8, 2021 at 1:24 pm
This was my first recipe from you Nagi and i absolutely loved it, thank you! I really like how well laid out the website is. Will be making many more of your recipes.
Reply
March 9, 2021 at 10:33 am
Thanks so much for taking the time to give such great feedback Shane, I hope you try more recipes and love them! ❤️ N x
Reply
February 21, 2021 at 11:50 am
Made this for dinner tonight and I couldn’t wait to comment! I love Italian food and this definitely did not disappoint. I’m not a huge aubergine fan but it’s tasty in this recipe. Will definitely make again, thanks!
Reply
January 19, 2021 at 11:24 am
Seeing the Pasta alla Norma recipe reminded me its been too long since I made it. 
I love, love, love it (and don’t especially like eggplant)!!!
Reply
January 19, 2021 at 4:20 am
I’m a little puzzled about the amount of protein in one serving – where is it derived from? The most I can calculate for one serving is about 11 total grams from the eggplant, (enriched) pasta, passata, & Parmesan cheese.
Reply
January 17, 2021 at 6:55 am
This is a delicious recipe, Nagi. The second time I made it I tore fresh lasagne sheets into strips for wide pasta, I added a tablespoon of honey, and I topped it with big dollops of ricotta.
Reply
Older Comments
Primary Sidebar
Search Recipes...
Hi, I'm Nagi!
I believe you can make great food with everyday ingredients even if you’re short on time and cost conscious. You just need to cook clever and get creative! Read More __
Free Recipe eBooks
Join my free email list to receive THREE free cookbooks!
Meet Dozer
Official taste tester of RecipeTin Eats! Meet Dozer __
As Featured On
What's for Dinner?
Beef Enchiladas 
Butter Chicken 
Chinese Chicken Salad 
Salisbury Steak with Mushroom Gravy 
Vietnamese Coconut Caramel Chicken 
Fast prep. Big flavours!
Never miss a recipe
Back to Top
Search Recipes...
Related
RecipeTin Japan
Food Bloggers Center
Help
Contact Us
Image Use
Privacy Policy & Terms
Site Credits Maintained by Zao Designed by Melissa Rose Design Developed by Once Coupled © RecipeTin Eats 2021 · All Rights Reserved Back to Top
