Directions:
In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour, seasoned salt, sugar, and yeast. Add lukewarm water. Let it sit for 2-3 minutes then mix until dough forms.
Using your hands knead for one minute and form a ball.
Spray a large separate bowl with non stick cooking spray. Place dough in prepared bowl. And flip over to ensure the top of the dough has a bit of cooking spray on top of it.
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean towel for 1 hour or until dough has doubled.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
Spray a 10 x15 baking sheet with non stick cooking spray. Using a small pastry roller, roll out dough on prepared baking sheet.
In a small bowl combine butter, garlic powder and Italian seasoning and heat in microwave until melted. Whisk until well combined.
Using a basting brush, brush the butter spread over the top of the dough.
Sprinkle dough with shredded cheese then top with parmesan cheese and parsley.
Bake for 15-17 minutes or until dough has browned and cheese is bubbly.
Remove from oven and let them cool for about 2 minutes.
Using a pizza cutter, cut into 16 breadsticks.
Wrap the leftover breadsticks with plastic wrap or place in a ziplock bag. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
Makes 16 breadsticks
Instructions
1. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour, seasoned salt, sugar, and yeast. Add lukewarm water. Let it sit for 2-3 minutes then mix until dough forms. 
2. Using your hands knead for one minute and form a ball.
3. Spray a large separate bowl with non stick cooking spray. Place dough in prepared bowl. And flip over to ensure the top of the dough has a bit of cooking spray on top of it.
4. Cover with plastic wrap or a clean towel for 1 hour or until dough has doubled. 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
5. Spray a 10 x15 baking sheet with non stick cooking spray. Using a small pastry roller, roll out dough on prepared baking sheet.
6. In a small bowl combine butter, garlic powder and Italian seasoning and heat in microwave until melted. Whisk until well combined.
7. Using a basting brush, brush the butter spread over the top of the dough.
8. Sprinkle dough with shredded cheese then top with parmesan cheese and parsley.
9. Bake for 15-17 minutes or until dough has browned and cheese is bubbly.
10. Remove from oven and let them cool for about 2 minutes.
11. Using a pizza cutter, cut into 16 breadsticks.
12. Wrap the leftover breadsticks with plastic wrap or place in a ziplock bag. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. 
Makes 16 breadsticks 