https://barefeetinthekitchen.com/honey-garlic-meatballs/
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Barefeet in the Kitchen
MenuClose
Home
Recipes
View All
Main Dishes
Side Dishes
Desserts
Appetizers & Snacks
Breakfast
Breads
Condiments
Drinks
Kitchen Tips
Cookbooks
Life
Charity
Family
Musings
The Little Things
Travel
About
About Me
Contact Me
Work With Me
FAQs
Log in to Your Account
Create Account & Save Recipes
Disclosures & Privacy
2022BAREFEETINTHEKITCHEN.COM. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Search for
Home » Recipes » Main Dishes
Slow Cooker Honey Garlic Meatballs
March 4, 2022No Comments
This post may contain affiliate links. Please read my disclosure policy.
Pin0Facebook0Tweet0Yummly0Email0
Jump to Recipe
Sweet, spicy, and absolutely finger-licking delicious, Honey Garlic Meatballs have become a go-to EASY dinner plan. This recipe is awesome for the days when I just don’t have much time to spend in the kitchen – or when I simply don’t feel like cooking!
Honey Garlic Meatballs
This is the kind of dinner that I can start mid-afternoon, barely pay attention to it, and have dinner ready at any point between 5 pm and 8 pm when we’re ready to eat and when everyone has made it home from martial arts and other activities.
I typically serve the meatballs with rice. However, they also work well with leftover mashed potatoes or with dinner rolls for a sweet, tangy, spicy meatball sandwich option.
Honey Garlic Crock-Pot Meatballs
1. Combine the honey, soy sauce, ketchup, garlic, and chili paste in a small bowl or glass measuring cup. Stir to combine.
2. Place the meatballs in the slow cooker. Pour the sauce over the meatballs and stir to coat thoroughly. Cover with lid and cook on LOW for 4 hours or HIGH for 1½ hours.
3. Stir well, taking care to scrape the sides of the crock-pot. Add the bell peppers and stir again to mix throughout. Cover with lid and cook on HIGH for 1 more hour. 
4. Stir and serve warm OR reduce heat to WARM and hold for up to 2 more hours.
My choice for this recipe is miniature or bite-size (approximately 1-inch) frozen meatballs whenever possible. I’ve used “party” meatballs, homestyle meatballs, even Italian meatballs without any issues. 
I typically just use whichever meatballs are in my freezer. The sauce has so much flavor, it will be stronger than any of the underlying meatball flavors. It just plain works.
While we love a little bit of heat with many of our meals, the chili paste in this recipe does more to deepen the flavor than “heat” the sauce. That said, if you’re leery of it, use the lesser amount or feel free to skip it entirely. It works both ways.
Looking for more very simple, minimal effort meals? Easy recipes like Creamy Cajun Pasta and the Egg Roll Skillet are fast dinners that guarantee dinner on the table fast. 
Cheater Korean Beef and this Kielbasa and Cabbage Skillet are a couple more lightning-fast ways to get dinner on the table and everyone loves them.
Sticky Garlic Pork is another great option for a fast dinner with tons of flavor.
Last, but not least, if these 30 Minute Green Chile Chicken Enchiladas aren’t on your regular meal plan, they should be, Enchiladas are a crowd-pleasing meal that I make for my crew at least once a month.
Get New Recipessent to your inbox!
We never share your information with third parties and will protect it in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Slow Cooker Honey Garlic Meatballs
Sweet, spicy, and absolutely finger-licking delicious, Honey Garlic Meatballs have become a go-to EASY dinner plan.
Save to Favorites Pin Print Review
Prep Time: 5 mins
Cook Time: 5 hrs
Total Time: 5 hrs 5 mins
Servings: 8
Cook ModePrevent your screen from going dark
Ingredients 
¾ cup honey
¾ cup low-sodium soy sauce
¾ cup ketchup
3 tablespoons garlic paste OR (12) garlic cloves, minced
2-4 tablespoons chili paste optional, but highly recommended the full amount
3 pounds frozen meatballs
4 multi-colored bell peppers cut into 1-inch pieces
Instructions
Combine the honey, soy sauce, ketchup, garlic, and chili paste in a small bowl or glass measuring cup. Stir to combine.
Place the meatballs in the slow cooker. Pour the sauce over the meatballs and stir to coat thoroughly. Cover with lid and cook on LOW for 4 hours or HIGH for 1½ hours.
Stir well, taking care to scrape the sides of the crock-pot. Add the bell peppers and stir again to mix throughout. Cover with lid and cook on HIGH for 1 more hour. Stir and serve warm OR reduce heat to WARM and hold for up to 2 more hours.
Notes
My choice for this recipe is miniature or bite-size (approximately 1-inch) frozen meatballs whenever possible. I’ve used “party” meatballs, homestyle meatballs, even Italian meatballs without any issues. I typically use whichever meatballs are in my freezer.
If you’re leery of the chili paste, use the lesser amount or feel free to skip it entirely. It works both ways.
Nutrition
Calories: 604kcal · Carbohydrates: 39g · Protein: 31g · Fat: 36g · Saturated Fat: 13g · Polyunsaturated Fat: 3g · Monounsaturated Fat: 16g · Cholesterol: 122mg · Sodium: 1101mg · Potassium: 759mg · Fiber: 2g · Sugar: 34g · Vitamin A: 1998IU · Vitamin C: 79mg · Calcium: 38mg · Iron: 2mg
Tried this recipe?Mention @barefeetkitchen or tag barefeetkitchen!
Pin this nowto remember it later
Pin this recipe0
Filed under: Appetizers & Snacks, Main Dishes, Meats, Recipes, Slow Cooker
Share this Article
Pin0Facebook0Tweet0Yummly0Email0
Related Posts
BBQ Chicken Stuffed Baked Potatoes
4.7
Simple Skillet Pork Chops
4.3
Recommended Pork Cooking Temperatures
Pizza Soup
Mary Younkin
Hi, I’m Mary. I’m the author, cook, photographer, and travel lover behind the scenes here at Barefeet In The Kitchen. I'm also the author of three cookbooks dedicated to making cooking from scratch as simple as possible.
See my Cookbooks
Learn More
Reader Interactions
Rate & Comment Cancel reply
Rating Rating 
Comment 
Want To Add Your Own Recipe Image?
You can now include images of your recipes in your comments! You'll need to register or log in to upload images.
Name 
Email 
Current [email protected] 
Leave this field empty
Primary Sidebar
Get New Recipessent to your inbox!
We never share your information with third parties and will protect it in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Barefeet in the Kitchen
Home
Recipes
Cookbooks
Life
About
Disclosure & Privacy Policy
Proud Member of: 
Mediavine Publisher Network 
Food Innovation Group: Bon Appetit and Epicurious
2022 BAREFEETINTHEKITCHEN.COM. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Share this ArticleLike this article? Email it to a friend!
Friend's Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Comments
Send Email
Email sent!
