https://www.instrupix.com/easy-low-carb-spanish-cauliflower-rice-side-dish/
Recipes
Dinner
Dessert
Low Carb
Party Food
DIY
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Search
Search for: Search
Menu
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Spanish Cauliflower Rice
A low carb and healthy side dish that’s super easy to make thanks to frozen cauliflower rice.
Shares
This spanish cauliflower rice is made in just one pan with frozen cauliflower rice and a few other simple and cheap ingredients including a can of Rotel diced tomatoes and green chiles. It’s a fabulous complement to any Mexican inspired dish, especially if you’re watching your carbs.
And, you don’t have to be on a low carb diet to enjoy this yummy recipe. You could seriously trick your family into thinking it’s actual rice; little will they know that it’s just a healthy veggie packed full of fiber. Sneaky!
Easy To Make With Frozen Cauliflower Rice
What do I serve with Spanish Cauliflower Rice?
This simple side dish pairs well with so many Mexican inspired dishes, and it’s the perfect healthy replacement to rice. You could simply add some protein to this “rice” with chicken or steak, and then call it a meal (a little shredded cheese never hurt, either). Here are some other ways to serve this fiber-packed side dish:
Stuff it into homemade tacos or burritos.
Make a homemade burrito bowl by adding chicken or steak with avocado, cheese and sour cream.
Serve it with enchiladas. 
Toss it into a Mexican inspired salad. 
Serve it with this Cheesy Fajita Baked Chicken
or these Taco Stuffed Zucchini Boats
Add some nutrition to this Taco Lasagna or these Taco Stuffed Shells
Use this Homemade Keto Tortilla Recipe to make low carb quesadillas or tacos.
No matter how you decide to serve it, this low carb Spanish rice is effortless to make in just one pan. You can make it as spicy or as mild as you’d like, and customize it with anything you have on hand such as cilantro, green onions, or shredded cheese.
A quick and easy side dish that pairs well with any Mexican inspired meal.
Print
Easy Spanish Cauliflower Rice (Healthy & Low Carb)
If you're looking for low carb side dish recipes, this spanish cauliflower rice pairs well with any Mexican inspired meal! And, it's super quick and easy to make in just one pan thanks to frozen cauliflower rice. It's also healthy, yummy and packed full of fiber. What more could you ask for? Your entire family will love this simple veggie side dish recipe!
Course: Side Dish 
Cuisine: Mexican 
Keyword: cauliflower rice, easy, frozen, healthy, keto, low carb, mexican, side dish, simple, spanish, vegetables 
Servings: 4
Ingredients
1/2 cup diced onion
1 tbsp olive oil
1 (10oz) bag frozen cauliflower rice
1 (10oz) can diced tomatoes & green chiles (drained)
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp chili powder
salt and pepper to taste
Instructions
1. Microwave the frozen cauliflower rice according to the package instructions; open the bag to vent and set aside.
2. In a skillet over medium heat, sauté the diced onion with the olive oil for about 5 minutes or until tender.
3. Add the cooked cauliflower rice, can of tomatoes, garlic powder, cumin and chili powder to the pan. Stir well and allow the flavors to absorb into the cauliflower rice for about 5 minutes.
4. Do a taste test and add salt & pepper as desired.
5. Serve warm and keep any leftovers in the fridge for up to 3 days. 
Recipe Notes
You could additionally add green onion, cilantro, fresh garlic, or shredded cheese to this recipe.
If you're heat sensitive or have picky kids, try using a can of mild tomatoes and green chiles.
Newsletter
Recipes & other inspiration in your inbox. 
Signup
We won't send you spam or anything crappy. Unsubscribe at any time.
Built with ConvertKit
You Might Also Like
16 Easy Frozen Cauliflower Rice Recipes (Keto & Low Carb)
Frozen cauliflower rice is my absolute favorite low carb and healthy vegetable to make. It’s so versatile and easy to make as a side dish.
Keto Garlic Parmesan Cauliflower Rice
The BEST low carb side dish! This quick and easy keto recipe pairs well with just about any meal, and it’s incredibly delicious and healthy. 
Keto Cauliflower Fried Rice
If you’re looking for healthy dinner recipes, this cauliflower fried rice is not only incredibly quick and easy to make in just one pan, it’s absolutely delicious! 
Cajun Sausage Cauliflower Rice 
A quick and easy keto dinner recipe! Made in just one pan with frozen cauliflower rice, bell pepper, onion, sausage and cajun seasoning.
Don’t forget to pin and save this easy low carb side dish recipe for later! 🙂
Leave a comment...
You may also like
Cilantro Lime Cauliflower Rice
Creamy Garlic Mashed Cauliflower
Garlic Parmesan Cauliflower Rice
Cheesy Taco Ground Beef & Cauliflower Rice
Easy Cheesy Cauliflower Rice
10 Amazing Keto Soup Recipes
Roasted Cabbage Steaks
20 Easy Keto Desserts That Don’t Taste Low Carb
Keto Sushi Bowls
Creamy White Chicken Enchiladas
About Me
I’m just a gal that likes to make fun stuff and whip up easy recipes in the kitchen. 
Search
Search for: Search
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Newsletter
2020 instrupix.com
Back to Top
Recipes
Dinner
Dessert
Low Carb
Party Food
DIY
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Search for: Search
Ad Blocker Detected!
Advertisements fund this website. Please disable your adblocking software or whitelist our website. 
Thank You!
Refresh
