Instructions
HOW TO GRIND MUNG BEANS FOR BINDAETTEOK
Soak mung beans in a large bowl for 4 hours. Drain the water well.
Transfer the mung bean into a blender or food processor and add the water (3/4 cup). Grind until it turns smooth, about 2 minutes.
Pour out the pureed mung beans onto a mixing bowl, then add the glutinous rice flour, potato starch and fine salt.
HOW TO MAKE BINDAETTEOK
Prepare a medium-sized bowl and add the pancake batter ingredients. Whisk it well. (If you are using dried mung beans and followed the steps above, you can skip this part.) Set aside for 30 - 40 minutes. (Only do this if you used a mung bean flour mix. This is just following the instructions on the package.)
Prepare a small bowl and add minced pork and marinade. Mix them well. Set aside for 30 minutes.
Once 30-40 minutes have passed, add the marinated pork, mung bean sprouts, green onions, and kimchi to the mung bean pancake batter. Mix well.
Preheat the pan on medium-high heat until the bottom of the pan is well heated. Add the cooking oil and ensure the oil is spread all the way around the pan. (Watch out for the oil splash.) Reduce the heat to medium. Scoop out the pancake mixture with a ladle and spread it evenly and thinly around the pan.
Once the bottom of the pancake is set, move the pancake around in a circular motion from time to time so the pancake doesn’t stick to the pan.
Flip the pancake over when you see the bottom of the pancake is partially cooked. (This makes it easy to turn the pancake. It takes around 2 to 3 minutes depending on the thickness of the pancake).
Replenish a bit of cooking oil around the edges of the pancake, if necessary. Press down the pancake with a spatula a couple of times to sizzle and make it crispy. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the heat off and transfer it onto a plate or a cutting board.
Repeat steps 4 to 5 for the remaining batter. Serve with some kimchi and pickled onions.
Notes
1. The leftovers can be refrigerated for to 2-3 days or frozen for a month at a time. Defrost the pancake at room temperature and then heat in a pan over low heat or in the microwave.