https://mykoreankitchen.com/bindaetteok/
Skip to content
Never miss a new recipe
Subscribe
Blog View Videos
Search
Menu
About
Recipes
eBooks
Shop
Contact
Easy Korean Recipes 
Home » Appetizers » Bindaetteok (Mung Bean Pancake)
Bindaetteok (Mung Bean Pancake)
Share
Pin
Tweet
Email
Jump to Recipe Jump to Discussion
Have you heard about Korean pancakes made from mung beans? This tasty Korean pancake, known as bindaetteok, is made from ground mung beans or mung bean flour. Here you will learn how to make it at home from scratch!
What is Bindaetteok
Bindaetteok or Bindae-tteok (빈대떡), is a Korean pancake that is primarily made from mung beans. These mung beans can be sourced from dried mung beans ground into slurry mung bean pancake mixture or from pre-made mung bean flour mix.
Obviously, it is much easier and convenient to make mung bean pancakes from mung bean flour mix, and you can get this from a Korean grocery store.
Bindaetteok is also known as Nokdu-Jeon (녹두전) and it is often sold at street markets in Korea. Gwangjang Market in Seoul is arguably the most famous place for bindaetteok in Korea.
Other than mung beans, bindaetteok batter also includes water, minced pork, chopped kimchi, bean sprouts and a variety of seasonings to bring out more savory and nutty taste.
Once the bindaetteok mixture is prepared, it is spread out thinly into a circular shape and then cooked on a hot pan over generous amounts of cooking oil. Using generous amounts of oil will result in crisper, more beautiful golden mung bean pancakes.
Korean mung bean pancakes are often served with kimchi, pickled onions or Korean pancake sauce.
Dried Mung Beans vs. Mung Bean Flour
Making bindaetteok with dried mung beans is quite a labour-intensive task. Traditionally, they would use a stone mill called maetdol (멧돌) to crush the beans but nowadays most people use an electric grinder or food processor.
To make mung bean pancakes, you’ll need to soak the dried mung beans in water for several hours, and then grind them into a batter. Raw mung beans can be purchased at most Asian supermarkets and can be soaked overnight. I used pre-hulled, split beans to make preparation easier. 
Most mung bean flour for bindaetteok is pre-seasoned with salt and other seasonings, so it is more convenient to use. The color of the pancakes may also vary depending on which brand of mung bean flour you use.
My Best Tips
Before putting kimchi into the pancake batter, rinse the kimchi well. Otherwise, the kimchi can influence the flavor and the color of the bindaetteok a bit much.
Many people use gosari (fernbrake or fiddlehead) when they make bindaetteok, but it can be omitted like I did here, if you can’t find it easily.
Bindaetteok is a filling and hearty dish. You can easily eat it as a meal or appetizer or side dish for dinner. The leftovers can be refrigerated for to 2-3 days or frozen for a month at a time. Defrost the pancake at room temperature and then heat in a pan over low heat or in the microwave.
Other Korean Pancake Recipes
If you love Korean pancakes, you should check out my pancake recipes below. You won’t be disappointed!
Pajeon (Korean Seafood Pancake)
Kimchi Jeon (Kimchi Pancake)
Chive Pancake (Buchujeon)
Korean Potato Pancake (Gamja Jeon)
Bindaetteok Ingredients
Mung Bean Pancake Batter
Option 1) Mung Bean Flour
1 and 1/4 cup mung bean flour mix
1/4 tsp fine salt
1 cup water
Option 2) Dried Mung Beans
1 cup (215g / 7.6 ounces) dried peeled and split mung beans
3/4 cup water
1/4 cup glutinous rice flour 
1 Tbsp potato starch
1/2 tsp fine salt
Meat & Vegetables
150g / 5.3 ounces minced pork 
100g / 3.5 ounces mung bean sprouts, rinsed and drained
50g / 1.8 ounces green onion (white part), thinly sliced
150g / 5.3 ounces ripe kimchi, rinsed and squeezed, thinly sliced
3 Tbsp cooking oil or more as required
Meat Marinade
1 Tbsp soy sauce (I used regular kikoman soy sauce)
1/2 Tbsp rice wine
1/4 tsp minced garlic
A few sprinkles of ground black pepper
1 Tbsp = 15 ml, 1 Cup = 250 ml
How to Grind Mung Beans for Bindaetteok
If you decided to use actual mung beans instead of mung bean flour mix, follow the steps below.
1\. Soak mung beans in a large bowl for 4 hours. Drain the water well.
2\. Transfer the mung bean into a blender or food processor and add the water (3/4 cup). Grind until it turns smooth, about 2 minutes.
3\. Pour out the pureed mung beans onto a mixing bowl, then add the glutinous rice flour, potato starch and fine salt.
How to Make Bindaetteok
1\. Prepare a medium-sized bowl and add the pancake batter ingredients. Whisk it well. (If you are using dried mung beans and followed the steps above, you can skip this part.) Set aside for 30 – 40 minutes. (Only do this if you used a mung bean flour mix. This is just following the instructions on the package.)
3\. Once 30-40 minutes have passed, add the marinated pork, mung bean sprouts, green onions, and kimchi to the mung bean pancake batter. Mix well.
4\. Preheat the pan on medium-high heat until the bottom of the pan is well heated. Add the cooking oil and ensure the oil is spread all the way around the pan. (Watch out for the oil splash.) Reduce the heat to medium. Scoop out the pancake mixture with a ladle and spread it evenly and thinly around the pan.
Once the bottom of the pancake is set, move the pancake around in a circular motion from time to time so the pancake doesn’t stick to the pan.
Flip the pancake over when you see the bottom of the pancake is partially cooked. (This makes it easy to turn the pancake. It takes around 2 to 3 minutes depending on the thickness of the pancake).
5\. Replenish a bit of cooking oil around the edges of the pancake, if necessary. Press down the pancake with a spatula a couple of times to sizzle and make it crispy. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the heat off and transfer it onto a plate or a cutting board.
6\. Repeat steps 4 to 5 for the remaining batter. Serve with some kimchi and pickled onions.
Love Korean food? Browse lots more Korean recipes from my easy Korean recipe collections. And subscribe to my newsletter and follow along on Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram for all of the latest updates.
Bindaetteok Recipe
Bindaetteok is a popular Korean pancake or jeon made from ground mung beans. This delicious pancake is a great snack to have, and it is full of savory goodness. Learn how to make bindaetteok below!
Print Pin Rate Save Saved!
Course: Appetizer, Side dishes
Cuisine: Korean
Keyword: bindaetteok, mung bean pancake
Prep Time: 40 minutes
Cook Time: 35 minutes
Total Time: 1 hour 15 minutes
Servings: 8
Author: Sue Pressey
Ingredients
MUNG BEAN PANCAKE BATTER
Option 1) Mung Bean Flour
1 1/4 cup mung bean flour mix
1/4 tsp fine salt
1 cup water
Option 2) Dried Mung Beans
1 cup dried peeled and split mung beans
3/4 cup water
1/4 cup glutinous rice flour
1 Tbsp potato starch
1/2 tsp fine salt
MEAT & VEGETABLES
150 g minced pork (5.3 ounces)
100 g mung bean sprouts (3.5 ounces), rinsed and drained
50 g green onion (1.8 ounces), (white part), thinly sliced
150 g ripe kimchi (5.3 ounces), rinsed and squeezed, thinly sliced
3 Tbsp cooking oil (more if required)
MEAT MARINADE
1 Tbsp soy sauce (I used regular kikoman soy sauce)
1/2 Tbsp rice wine (mirim)
1/4 tsp minced garlic
A few sprinkles ground black pepper
Instructions
HOW TO GRIND MUNG BEANS FOR BINDAETTEOK
Soak mung beans in a large bowl for 4 hours. Drain the water well.
Transfer the mung bean into a blender or food processor and add the water (3/4 cup). Grind until it turns smooth, about 2 minutes.
Pour out the pureed mung beans onto a mixing bowl, then add the glutinous rice flour, potato starch and fine salt.
HOW TO MAKE BINDAETTEOK
Prepare a medium-sized bowl and add the pancake batter ingredients. Whisk it well. (If you are using dried mung beans and followed the steps above, you can skip this part.) Set aside for 30 - 40 minutes. (Only do this if you used a mung bean flour mix. This is just following the instructions on the package.)
Prepare a small bowl and add minced pork and marinade. Mix them well. Set aside for 30 minutes.
Once 30-40 minutes have passed, add the marinated pork, mung bean sprouts, green onions, and kimchi to the mung bean pancake batter. Mix well.
Preheat the pan on medium-high heat until the bottom of the pan is well heated. Add the cooking oil and ensure the oil is spread all the way around the pan. (Watch out for the oil splash.) Reduce the heat to medium. Scoop out the pancake mixture with a ladle and spread it evenly and thinly around the pan.
Once the bottom of the pancake is set, move the pancake around in a circular motion from time to time so the pancake doesn’t stick to the pan.
Flip the pancake over when you see the bottom of the pancake is partially cooked. (This makes it easy to turn the pancake. It takes around 2 to 3 minutes depending on the thickness of the pancake).
Replenish a bit of cooking oil around the edges of the pancake, if necessary. Press down the pancake with a spatula a couple of times to sizzle and make it crispy. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the heat off and transfer it onto a plate or a cutting board.
Repeat steps 4 to 5 for the remaining batter. Serve with some kimchi and pickled onions.
Notes
1. The leftovers can be refrigerated for to 2-3 days or frozen for a month at a time. Defrost the pancake at room temperature and then heat in a pan over low heat or in the microwave.
The nutrition information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. It should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice.
Tried this recipe?I love hearing how you went with my recipes! Rate this recipe with a comment below and tag me on Instagram @MyKoreanKitchen.
You May Also Like
Garaetteok – Rice Cake Recipe
Korean Seafood and Green Onion Pancakes (Haemul Pajeon)
Korean Sweet Rice with Dried Fruit and Nuts
Share
Pin
Tweet
Email
Filed under: Appetizers
Tagged with: pancakes
Written by: Sue
Last Updated: March 4, 2022
Welcome to my Korean kitchen! I’m so happy that you're here. I am Sue, the creator behind My Korean Kitchen (since 2006). I love good food and simplifying recipes. Here you will find my best and family approved recipes. Thanks for stopping by!
NEVER MISS A NEW RECIPE
Join 20,000+ other Korean food lovers! Get the latest recipes from My Korean Kitchen delivered to your email inbox. It's free!
SUBSCRIBE
I will only send you emails related to My Korean Kitchen. Unsubscribe at any time.
Copyright: Unless otherwise noted, all photography and content on this site is the intellectual property of Sue Pressey of My Korean Kitchen. Please do not copy and/or paste full recipes and images to any social media channels or websites without my prior written consent. This is strictly prohibited. You may however, use a single image and a summary of my article in your own words, provided that proper attribution is given to myself and an appropriate link back to my original recipe. Thank you. 
Disclosure: My Korean Kitchen is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com._
Saeujeot (Korean Salted Shrimp)
Subscribe __
Notify of 
new follow-up comments new replies to my comments
Label
Rate This Recipe With Your Comment Rate This Recipe With Your Comment 
Name
Email
Website
Label
Rate This Recipe With Your Comment Rate This Recipe With Your Comment 
Name
Email
Website
1 Comment 
Newest __
Oldest Most Voted
Inline Feedbacks
View all comments
Load More Comments 
ANNYEONG & WELCOME!
I'm Sue, the author/cook/photographer behind My Korean Kitchen. Here I talk all about my love and passion for Korean food and Korean fusion food. 
Read more
Get My Cookbook & Video
Essential Korean Ingredients
My Korean Kitchen Store
Make Korean BBQ at Home
NEVER MISS A NEW RECIPE
Join 20,000+ other Korean food lovers!
Get the latest recipes from My Korean Kitchen delivered to your email inbox. It's free!
SUBSCRIBE
Connect
Information
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Resources
Explore
Korean Pantry Essentials
Banchan Cookbook
Korean BBQ Guide
Shop
2006 - 2022 My Korean Kitchen, All Rights Reserved
About
Recipes
Blog
Videos
eBooks
Shop
Contact
Close
wpDiscuz
Insert
NEVER MISS A NEW RECIPE
Join 20,000+ other Korean food lovers! Get the latest recipes from
My Korean Kitchen delivered to your email inbox. It's free!
SUBSCRIBE
