Instructions
Crust
Preheat your oven to 350 degrees/F.
Add graham crackers to a food processor until you get about 1 1/2 cups of crumbs. Add in the melted butter and pulse until combined.
Pour into the bottom of a greased 7″ springform pan and use your hand or the back of a spoon to press and form a crust bringing the crumbs up about 1 inch on the sides.
Bake the crust for 10 minutes or until golden. Remove and cool on a wire rack.
Filling
In the bowl of a stand mixer (or use a hand mixer) with a paddle attachment, cream the cream cheese for 3-4 minutes or until completely smooth and there are no lumps.
Slowly pour in the sugar and flour and mix until just combined.
Add vanilla and heavy cream. Mix on low speed until combined. Slowly increase the speed to high for about 1 minute,
Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl and make sure there are no lumps. Give one final mix before adding the eggs.
Add the eggs one at a time and mix just until the yolk disappears into the batter.
Pour the batter into the prepared crust and gently tap the bottom of the pan on the counter to release any air bubbles.
Cover the pan completely with aluminum foil. Add one cup of water into the inner pot of your Instant Pot and add in the trivet,
Place the cheesecake on top of the trivet and set your pot to high pressure for 40 minutes and allow to naturally release.
Once you can open the pot, remove the cheesecake and allow to cool to room temperature on a wire rack.
Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator to set for at least 6 hours but overnight is recommended.
Topping:
Once the cheesecake is set. Pour the Dulce de Leche over the top of the cheesecake while it is still in the springform pan. Smooth into an even layer.
Place the cheesecake back in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Once the caramel starts to harden, add the heavy cream and chocolate into a microwave safe bowl and heat on 30 second increments, stirring in between, until melted and smooth.
Allow the chocolate to cool for 4-5 minutes then pour over the caramel layer and smooth.
Top with swirls of whipped cream and mini Twix candy and serve.
Keep any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days