Directions
Peel the eggplants, the slice them and then cut the slices into strips about the size of your little finger. 
Salt the eggplant strips generously and lay the in a colander inside a bowl. Top with a small plate and weigh the plate down. (A small can of tuna, beans or tomatoes works well.) Leave to rest overnight. 
Melanzane sott'ollo][3]
The next day, as pictured above, a considerable amount of liquid should have drained into the bowl. Discard that. Take the eggplant strips by the handful and squeeze them of as much of their remaining liquid as you can. 
Melanzane sott'olio][4]
Bring the vinegar and water to a boil in a saucepan. Add the eggplant by the handful and boil each batch for 2 minutes. Drain and let cool completely.
When the eggplant strips are cool enough to handle, squeeze them again of their excess liquid. 
Now, place the eggplant strips in a mason jar or other air-tight container, layering them with bits of garlic, _peperoncino_ and herbs. 
Melanzane sott'olio][5]
Press everything down to compact the contents of the jar, then add as much olive oil as you need to cover the eggplant strips completely. 
Close the jar tightly and let it rest in a cool, dry place for at least a couple of days, preferably a week, before consuming. 
6]
Notes on preserving _sott’olio_
The sott’olio technique is hard to mess up. But if you want best results, there are a few tips to bear in mind when it comes to the ingredients. 
First and foremost, use medium to small eggplants if you can find them. They tend to be more tender and contain fewer seeds than the usual gigantic ones. 
Use fresh hot red peppers, if you can find them, although as you will have seen, I used dried ones for this post as that’s what I had in the house. (And I don’t do single item shopping these days for obvious reasons!) If you do use dried _peperoncini_ , use a bit less as they tend to be hotter than the fresh variety. 
White wine vinegar is, for some reason, harder to find than red, but it’s important for this dish as it won’t discolor the veg. In a pinch, you can substitute apple cider vinegar. And if, like me, you prefer a milder flavor, you can use a 2:1 water to vinegar ratio rather than the 1:1 ratio mentioned here. 
The olive oil, of course, is perhaps the most crucial ingredient besides the eggplant, so use the best quality oil you can find and afford. Personally I prefer fruity southern Italian oils from Puglia and Sicily for this dish, but again, what I had on hand was a milder oil from Liguria. It was still delicious. 