How to make Sheet Pan Quesadillas:
Step 1: Preheat the oven to 425° F / 220° C.
Step 2: Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add onion and bell peppers, cook until soft for about 5 minutes. Remove from skillet and set aside in a small bowl.
Step 3: In the same skillet add ground beef and cook, breaking up meat until you get a brown color for about 5 minutes. Make sure to drain fat.
Step 4: Stir in paprika, chili powder, cumin, and season with salt and pepper to taste.
Step 5: Place 6 tortillas on a baking sheet, make sure to overlap the tortillas, and place another one to cover the baking sheet completely.
Step 6: Top with ground beef, then add pepper and onion mixture.
Step 7: Add shredded cheese and green onions on the top.
Step 8: Fold the tortillas towards the center and place another tortilla in the center on top of all fillings. If the tortillas don’t stay in place, put a second baking sheet on top of it to help quesadilla hold its shape.
Step 9: Bake until tortillas are beginning to turn crispy, about 25-35 minutes. If you added a second baking sheet, remove it after 10 minutes and continue baking.
Step 10: Slice the quesadillas into rectangles and serve warm with sour cream and pico de gallo on the top.
Enjoy!
Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 425° F / 220° C.
2. Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add onion and bell peppers, cook until soft for about 5 minutes. Remove from skillet and set aside in a small bowl.
3. In the same skillet add ground beef and cook, breaking up meat until you get a brown color for about 5 minutes. Make sure to drain fat.
4. Stir in paprika, chili powder, cumin, and season with salt and pepper to taste.
5. Place 6 tortillas on a baking sheet, make sure to overlap the tortillas, and place another one to cover the baking sheet completely.
6. Top with ground beef, then add pepper and onion mixture.
7. Add shredded cheese and green onions on the top.
8. Fold the tortillas towards the center and place another tortilla in the center on top of all fillings. If the tortillas don’t stay in place, put a second baking sheet on top of it to help quesadilla hold is shape.
9. Bake until tortillas are beginning to turn crispy, about 25-35 minutes. If you added a second baking sheet, remove it after 10 minutes and continue baking.
10. Slice the quesadillas into rectangles and serve warm with sour cream and pico de gallo on the top.
11. Enjoy!