Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 350F. Line a large sheet pan or rimless cookie sheet with parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a large mixing bowl or stand mixer bowl, whisk/sift together the oat flour, almond flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add the sugar and cinnamon and whisk again.
3. Change stand mixer to dough paddle. A food processor may be used in place of a stand mixer (see notes).
4. Add the chopped cold butter and place the stand mixer at medium speed. Mix until a mealy flour is formed (see blog photos). 
5. Next, add the cold milk, honey, and vanilla. Mix on medium to medium-high until combined. 
6. Remove the bowl from the stand mixer. Mix dough, by hand, until a soft ball is formed. Wrap dough in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to chill for 1-2 hours or freezer for 15 minutes. 
7. Once the dough has chilled, place the dough on a well floured surface or on wax paper sprinkled with oat flour. 
8. Place plastic wrap on top of the dough. Then using a rolling pin, roll the dough into a large rectangle about 1/8- inch thick. 
9. Carefully flip the dough onto the baking sheet. Use a sharp knife or pastry cutter to cut the dough into 3-inch by 3-inch squares. Gently remove any excess dough.
10. Using a fork, prick the crackers (score). Do not prick all the way through. Sprinkle the cookies with extra raw cane sugar, if desired. 
11. Place the baking sheet in the middle rack of the oven. Bake for 7 minutes, rotate the pan, and bake an additional 7-8 minutes (13-15 minutes in total) or until crackers are golden and firm to the touch. 
12. Allow the crackers to cool before cutting away from each other.
13. They will be crunchy for a couple of days and soften after 2 days if not dried out. See notes for how to dry out the crackers. This helps them last longer! Up to 2 weeks. 
Notes
Food Processor: Take a look here to learn the differences in how to properly handle and control the food processor to get perfectly smooth graham crackers every time. 
To keep extra crispy, roll out the batter extra thin, 1/16 inch thick before baking. Baking time will vary depending on thickness, keep watch so they don’t overbake. Or option two would be to dry out the 1/8th inch graham crackers once baked by placing in a 190-200F oven for about 1 hour. Remove and let cool before storing. 
To make these vegan, use non-dairy substitutes for butter and milk, and maple syrup instead of honey. 